{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Have you ever looked at a world map and seen how the shapes of South America and Africa look like they fit together like two pieces of a puzzle? I first noticed this as a child, but I didn't know there was a whole scientific theory that explained this phenomenon. It starts with a theory from the early 1900s from the scientist, Alfred Wegener. He proposed that every landmass on Earth was once joined together as one supercontinent called Pangaea. Most people thought Wegener was delusional, but today, there is a lot of evidence that supports his theory.\
\
The first, and most apparent, example is the \\\\"jigsaw fit\\\\" that I refered to. If you look at the western coast of Africa and the eastern coast of South America, you can see that they line up almost perfectly. This is not just the case for the two continents, though; about the continents of North America, Europe, and Greenland, if you move the continents around on a map, you can see that they all fit almost perfectly togehter. If you examine the continental shelves (the submerged margins of the continents) instead of only the shorelines, you will find that the fit is even better. This is because the level of the sea has changed over time, and scientists have even used computers to prove this.\
\
Another great example is fossils. Scientists have discovered fossils of identical plants and animals on continents that have thousands of miles of ocean between them. A prehistoric freshwater reptile, the Mesosaurus, remains have been found in South America and Africa. There is no way the reptile could have crossed the salty Atlantic Ocean. The logical explanation is that the continents were together when the Mesosaurus lived. The leaf and tree fossils of the Glossopteris, which could not have drifted across oceans, have been found in Australia, Antarctica, India, Africa, and South America. The continents must have been connected for that to have happened.\
\
We also have rocks and mountain ranges as evidence. If you put the continents back together, the Appalachian Mountains in the U.S. line up with the Scottish Highlands and mountains in Scandinavia. They are the same age and made of the same type of rock. It looks like the mountains were all one piece that were broken apart and spread out.\
\
Lastly, we can look at paleoclimatology, which studies ancient climates. In India and Africa, scientists discovered glacier scratches in current hot, dry climates. These continents must have been located near the South Pole in the distant past to have been covered in glaciation.\
\
Alfred Wegener, unfortunately, died before he was able to find the answer to the *how* question regarding the movement of continents. Now we know he was on the right path. With the information we have on plate tectonics and sea floor spreading, Wegener was able to formulate the first theory on continental drift. The rocks, fossils, glaciation, and, of course, continental shapes, give us enough evidence to know the continents have changed, possibly in a way we can barely imagine.\
\
}