{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 When discussing the richest individuals, people primarily think about Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos, having seen their names in the news mentioned with net worths of hundreds of billions. However, if we look closer into history, these two would not even be top 5 richest. The hardest thing is figuring out how to measure wealth in different eras. However, the majority of historians tend to agree on Mansa Musa being the richest of all time.\
\
Mansa Musa being one of the richest people in the world ruled the Mali Empire, located in the western part of Africa, during the fourteenth century. In order to assess how Mansa Musa was so wealthy, we look at the empire. In that period, Mali Empire was the largest producer of gold in the world. Along with being the biggest gold producer, he had the biggest control over the trade of salt, a crucial preservative in the ancient world. Thus, Mansa Musa had control of the two of the most important resources in the ancient world.\
\
The wealth that Musa has become a legend for has several components. The most well-known story has to do with a pilgrimage that he made to Mecca in 1324. However, he did not make the journey with just a couple of companions. Rather, he paraded a caravan that included tens of thousands of soldiers, heralds, and slaves, all of whom were dressed in luxurious silks. To top it off, he had dozens of camels that were loaded with several hundreds of pounds of gold. The legend states that he gave so much gold to the poor in Cairo that he caused a recession that ultimately ruined the economy for more than a decade. To say the very least, that is an insane amount of wealth. Imagine being so wealthy that simply giving tips ruined a country\'92s economy.\
\
There are of course other candidates for the title of the richest person in history. Some say that title goes to Augustus Caesar of the Roman Empire, who, historians say, held about 20 percent of the entire empire\'92s economy in his personal holdings. Or we could talk about John D. Rockefeller, who in U.S. history had about $400 billion in wealth when adjusted for inflation. However, Mansa Musa usually wins in such debates because his wealth had been in a sense, unlimited. Not because he owned a big empire, but because the empire\'92s resources were his to command. There were simply no means to calculate his wealth.\
\
The main reason comparing Mansa Musa to Elon Musk is difficult is because of \'93purchasing power\'94 and how we value things. Today's billionaires keep their money in apps and stocks. Back then, it was gold and land. Mansa Musa was a king, so the line between his personal treasury and the country\'92s was nonexistent. \
\
In conclusion, the big numbers we see on the Forbes list today do not compare to the absolute gold power Mansa Musa had. He was not just a rich guy, he was the main supplier of gold in the world. Despite the advanced technology we have today, there is no evidence of wealth that was comparable to Mansa Musa\'92s when he traveled through Africa. Musa is the wealthiest person in history.\
\
}