{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Seismometers have the great ability to predict earthquakes and protect lives. However, they also function based on fear. They can be used to predict the start of an earthquake but cannot predict when an earthquake will happen, leaving the public to fear losing their lives, houses, and belongings to the disasters. People, including kids, would picture their houses shaken like a snow globe and their belongings falling to the ground. To prevent all this, seismometers would be able to detect an earthquake before anyone would be able to feel it.\
\
Seismometers function based on the physics concept of inertia. They've probably seen a demonstration of this concept at an amusement park. Think about a ride, and how when the ride stops, all the riders will try to move forward because of inertia. The seismometer uses the same concept. If the ground shakes, the frame of the seismometer will also shake. However, the pendulum will not move because it is so heavy. The only way to move the pendulum is to shake the seismometer, which is not going to happen if an earthquake occurs.\
\
Back in the day, seismographs were the first machines that recorded earthquakes. They had a rolling piece of paper and a weight with a pen attached to it. If an earthquake were to occur, the paper would roll and the pen would draw a line based on the movement of the ground. Bigger earthquakes would mean bigger lines. These records are now referred to as seismograms, and with the advancements in technology, we no longer use a pen and paper to make them. Instead, we use digital sensors, along with magnets to make the seismograms. They don't use a pen, but rather measure the electric signals that are created when the frame moves in relation to the weight. That data goes directly to a computer, which is how we are able to receive earthquake alerts on our phones almost instantaneously.\
\
Additionally, we must consider that earthquakes create multiple wave types. There are Primary waves, more commonly known as P-waves, and Secondary waves or S-waves. P-waves are more rapid and typically arrive first, while S-waves arrive later. However, S-waves are significantly more powerful and result in most of the destructive shaking we experience. Given that earthquakes detectors can identify P-waves first, they are able to provide scientists with a slight \'93early warning\'94 period before the S-waves arrive. This warning period can last several seconds or up to a minute, and while it may seem insignificant, it can be enough time to implement safety measures. For instance, trains can slow to a stop, elevators can change levels, and people can find a position to \'93drop, cover, and hold on.\'94\
\
Finally, to understand the full scope of a single earthquake, scientists need more than just a single earthquake detector. They need a fully developed network of detectors. Scientists can gain valuable insight into the earthquakes by measuring the time it takes for the different detectors to pick up the waves. They can use mathematics, specifically triangulation, to identify the epicenter of the earthquake. The epicenter refers to the exact location where the earthquake began.\
\
Overall, earthquake detectors are pretty amazing. They don\'92t prevent the earth from moving, but, by using physics, provide a means to \'93see\'94 what\'92s occurring below the surface and allow us to make some proactive safety measures.\
\
}