{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Have you ever felt small as you look up at the night sky, filled with millions of stars? There are thought to be billions of stars in the Milky Way galaxy alone, and likely, there are billions of planets around these stars. If we can devise a way to quantify these planets, we can figure out how many are likely to be older than Earth and are life supporting as Earth. The real question is, why have we not found evidence of their existence?\
\
This question encompasses the Fermi Paradox, named after a noted physicist that, legend has it, would ask \'93Where is everybody?\'94 after a 1950s lunch break. The paradox stems from the great disparity between the number of scientists estimate have and the overwhelming number of factors that suggest extraterrestrial life exists. We have, as of yet, never seen a foreign spaceship, received a radio signal, or found any proof of the existence of extraterrestrial intelligent life.\
\
A number of theories exist to describe why all we hear is static. One of the more prominent and somewhat frightening of these is called the Great Filter. The Great Filter suggests that there is a wall of some kind that is almost impossible to get over when it comes to the advancement of life. Perhaps it lies within the transition from single-celled organisms to more complex life forms. It could also be that advanced civilizations end up collapsing due to nuclear war or climate catastrophe. If the filter is behind us, we are lucky, but if it lies ahead of us, we are likely doomed. \
\
The Zoo Hypothesis is another possible explanation. The Zoo Hypothesis suggests that aliens are real but have chosen to observe us from afar like we are animals in a zoo because they do not want to interfere with the development of species that they deem to be primitive. Although this idea sounds like it could be from a Star Trek episode, it is a valid explanation to why there is so much silence in the universe, if it is heavily populated.\
\
We might also want to consider the possibility that the reason we haven\'92t found anything is because we are looking for the wrong things. We have only been using radio waves for about a century. We have no idea what technology, if any, aliens might be using. Perhaps something as advanced as the lasers from science fiction! Perhaps aliens are using technology that is low enough for us not to notice. It's like looking for an person using an analog radio, while they are using an complex, fully encrypted chat. We might be too low tech.\
\
Then there is the \'93Rare-Earth\'94 theory. This is also perfectly valid- we really could be alone. Life could be extremely rare, and only occur under an extreme and specific set of conditions. Perhaps the perfect gas giants, the right distance from the sun, the right kind of moon, everything could only have a single instance of life. This is a lonely thought to have, and an lonely theory to consider. It is valid, and a true scientific theory.\
\
We are again, left contemplating life on a lonely Earth. The Fermi Paradox is one of the greatest mysteries in science, and life on a lonely Earth is one of the more depressing ideas from it. A cosmic zoo, a great filter, or perhaps a lonely Earth are all potential directions for the answer to the paradox. As we await our lonely Earth to signal a message from above, we are left looking up at a quiet universe.\
\
}