{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 In my environmental science class, we discuss the issue of global warming and the dangers of the rising temperature of the Earth. Out of all the potential solutions, we usually land on the most ineffective one, and that is, "stop relying on fossil fuels." Since that is not happening anytime soon, scientists are considering geoengineering, which is a fancy way of saying that we are going to try to fix the climate by artificially disrupting the Earth's systems. Personally, one of the most interesting (and somewhat frightening) is geoengineering the water cycle.\
\
The most frequently discussed method is probably cloud seeding. This isn't as fictional as it sounds, as California, and even countries like China, are already doing it. It involves planes that fly into clouds and release either silver iodide or sodium chloride. These serve as "seeds," which water droplets can attach, and subsequently cause precipitation, whether rain or snow. It is primarily aimed to support regions that are experiencing extreme drought or to replenish drought-stricken reservoirs.\
\
One more interesting example is marine cloud brightening. This refers to a system where ships spray saltwater mist to increase the whiteness and thickness of clouds, which reflects more sunlight. Whiter clouds would cool the oceans, which would change the rate of evaporation and, in turn, the rain patterns.\
\
These life hacks of sorts come with a couple of drawbacks. First, a rob Peter to pay Paul problem is created when cloud seeding induces rain in one particular state. You would be stealing moisture from the atmosphere to benefit one state while harming the neighboring one. This is what one would call a zero-sum game. Manipulating where the rain falls can lead to severe consequences, especially with politically unstable areas of the world that may suffer from water shortages.\
\
Another potential issue has to do with unintended consequences. Water cycles are complex and interconnected. Brightening clouds to cool the ocean could change monsoon patterns in India and Africa. Millions of people depend on those rain patterns for sustenance. If the timing of the rainy season were disrupted, mass starvation could occur. Also, we do not know what consequences long-term environmental dumping of massive amounts of silver iodide will have. Will it hurt the fish? Will it harm the soil? In many cases we do not have answers to these questions.  \
\
There is also the \'93moral hazard\'94 argument. If we believe we can control the weather through technology, people may disregard efforts to tackle carbon emissions. It is like treating a poor diet with a magic pill, leading to no real change in behavior.To sum up, manipulating the water cycle may become necessary if the situation worsens with climate change, though it is definitely one to be placed in the pile of risks. It is a short term solution to a problem that is potentially worse. We should exercise caution when trying to interfere with the natural climate system. Once we begin, there may be no turning back to stop the consequences.\
\
}