{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I grew up watching the wonderful smells of my dad\'92s and my mom\'92s family as they cooked together. My dad\'92s family is German-American and their food was the typical family food of the USA: pot roast and mashed potatoes with maybe some sauerkraut on the side for a little bit of adventure and food variety. Like most American family food, it was cooked with plenty of butter and on the other side of the family there was my mom. My mom cooked German food with a variety of spices such as shrimps, sambal ( a spicy condiment), and other stinky seasonings. My mom was a migrant from Malaysia and at times, her food cooked with dominated the smells of my dad\'92s family and it felt horrible as she migrated with the food. \
\
It was middle school and my mom made laksa (Noodles in spicy soup) for my lunch. When I opened the container, there was a lot of coconut and spicy curry for me to enjoy. I thought it was really good, but people in middle school are very judgmental. I was embarrassed as people made comments about my food and that scent of the soup was very strong. I said that it was a weird soup and I didn't eat the rest of the day.\
\
After that, I began to request Uncrustables and chips. I wanted to be the child with the unmarked paper bag. I began to hate when I thought about how my mother would spend voluntary hours, rhythmically smashing the same spice in the mortar and pestle, and how her hands would become the color of the spice. It would be so much easier if we just had spaghetti like everyone around us. I wanted to be \'93American\'94 so much that I was shoving my mother\'92s culture right outside the door. \
\
That all changed my sophomore year when my grandma (my Ma Ma) came to visit us from Malaysia. She didn\'92t know much English, but she knew food. One day, she wanted to teach me how to prepare a dish called Hainanese chicken rice. I wanted to go to my room to avoid it, but she grabbed my wrist and handed me a head of garlic.\
\
She explained to me that the rice is so much more than just some rice. It is actually toasted with ginger and chicken fat and then rice. My mom helped translate some of the stories she shared about how this type of food is very nostalgic and comforting. I noticed that I didn't just taste the salt and spice. I had to taste the effort and the history. I realized that the whole time I was trying to embarrass myself, my grandma and mom were putting their history in those bowls.\
\
Because of this experience, I began to see my mom\'92s cooking in a much different way. I saw that her "weird" ingredients were actually just her way of customs hiding her connection to her home that is thousands of miles away. I was so used to smelling the strong scent of shrimp paste that I actually began to like the smell and, surprisingly, I began to smell good.\
\
I\'92m still half German-American, and I still love a good burger, so I\'92ve stopped trying to normal. I\'92ve stopped being normal. I'm the kid that brings leftovers to school and I don\'92t care if the cafeteria smells like curry. When people ask me what it is, I don\'92t call it "weird soup." I tell them it\'92s my mom\'92s specialty and they are missing out if they don\'92t try it.\
\
}