{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Frankenstein seems like an old horror story about a guy who makes a monster from a bunch of body parts. In fact, Victor Frankenstein, the modern Prometheus, is about the birth of the still living thing modern AI, how companies like Open AI are now racing to create the most powerful AI, ChatGPT, and how Victor Frankenstein and AI developers are scared of the consequences of playing God. Victor Frankenstein is obsessed with his experiments. He doesn't create life to help humanity. He does it because he can. Unlike Victor, AI tech creators are obsessed with tech, and Victor Frankenstein obsessed with humanity. There is a thin line AI creators and Victor Frankenstein are playing with. In a world of no limits and no possible consequences. Victor sees his creation as a catastrophe because he is playing God, and like Victor, many creators see their creation in the same way. Many scientists warn us of a powerful AI. A catastrophe if there are no limits in place.\
\
Another major point concerns what we refer to as \'93The Uncanny Valley.\'94 In the novel, Victor expresses his loathing of the creature because of how it is almost human, but lacks some key human features, such as the color of his skin, which is yellow, and his \'91watery eyes\'92. Victor is so disgusted by him that he turns and runs. This is similar to what we humans experience when exposed to videos or videos of AI that are too lifelike. Even when something \'93acts\'94 real, it is common to feel a sense of \'93fakeness\'94 attached to it. In the case of Shelley, demonstrating technology's attempts to reproduce \\\\"real\\\\" humanity yields products that are somewhat novel but, ultimately, evoke a sense of fear.\
\
However, Victor's treatment of the creature is what stands out the most. He leaves it as soon as it comes to life because he is frightened. Once the creature gets abandoned, he gets lonely, and because of the rejection, he becomes violent. This is currently a big discussion in AI, what is known as bias and ``alignment.`` While training an AI, if we use data that is unkind and biased, the AI will function in the same manner. If we don\'92t ``parent`` the technology properly, it could have a detrimental impact on society. The creature is not born evil; it becomes evil because of what its creator did to it. If we build an AI that is uncontrollable and we neglect it, we will be liable for the ``monstrous`` things it does in the future.\
\
*Frankenstein* is far more than a tale about a zombie. Mary Shelley is warning us about the zombie. Creating new things is not a sign that we are ready to handle the responsibility that comes with it. It doesn't matter if it is a being made from disassembled body parts or a digital entity made from zeros and ones. The originator is always accountable for that which they introduce into existence. There is always the possibility that we will repeat Victor's blunders unless we learn. We could be confronted with a monster, and there would be no means to retract it.\
\
}