{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Have you thought about why the solder, which connects the wires in electronics, melts much more easily than the actual wires, which are made of copper? Looking at the metals, one would assume that they can easily withstand more heat, as they have very high melting points. However, there is a reason for this, and a very important one in the field of materials science and euotechnology. \
\
In materials science, a eutectic is defined as a mixture of a number of elements or compounds which has a lower melting point than the melting points of each of the individual elements or compounds. Eutectic compositions are highly desired in melting various metals. For instance, suppose there are two metals: Metal A has a melting point of 500 degree Celsius and Metal B has a melting point of 600 degrees Celsius. There is a chance that at a particular ratio, say 20% A and 80% B, the entire composite would have a melting point of 300 degrees Celsius. That ratio would be called the eutectic ratio.\
\
We learn about pure elements in school, but in practice, engineers work with alloys. When two metals are mixed, they don't always melt into a uniform liquid. Instead, they form a kind of slushy state with some liquid and some solid. A eutectic mixture is different. It solidifies and melts at one single temperature like a pure metal, which means it behaves like a pure metal at that temperature.\
\
This is important for engineering, and most notably soldering. When assembling a circuit board, using direct flam control is disruptive as it can melt the sensitive components. With a eutectic alloy (commonly lead and tin), engineers can work with soldering tools that are low temperature. As a eutectic, it also solidifies super fast and uniformly which is a great advantage to keep parts from shifting during the cooling.\
\
Another reason eutectics are so important is for casting. Companies making car engine blocks or any metal tools, need to melt metal then pour it into a mold. If the metal has a lower melting point, it can save a lot of energy and money. This also makes the process safer, since the metal doesn\'92t need to be heated to damaging levels. In fact, it makes it so liquid metal can be poured into the molds without ruining factory equipment.\
\
Eutectics also change the \'91microstructure\'92 of the metals. Microstructure refers to the small, detailed structures in metals that can change the metal\'92s properties. When metals in a eutectic mixture cool, they become a lot of small, layers of the different metals. Their microstructure can make a metal much stronger and even harder than the individual metals.\
\
All in all, eutectics are a \'93cheat code\'94 for engineering and chemistry. They help us work with metals a lower and safer temperatures, help save energy, and make the metals stronger. Products with electronics are easier to make, and metal products are cheaper to manufacture. Sometimes, the way something is mixed is more important than the actual materials being mixed.\
\
}