{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Thinking back to when I applied to Northwood Prep, my interview felt like it lasted an eternity, and it was one of the most embarrassing moments of my life. I thought I was being dramatic when I told my parents it felt like they were going to cancel my application and I thought I was going to lose all chances of going to high school. I was quarantined for weeks, and spent a lot of time memorizing and rehearsing my answers to questions in order to act very professional. I thought I was going to be the next businessman and I was going to show up to the interview in a suit with a big overpriced tie.\
\
In what felt like moments into my interview, I managed to drop the entire cup of water all over what I assumed to be his very expensive and very rich rug. I assumed it was rich, when really, I was in the interview of my life and I hand poured water into the splashing cup. After all of this, I was trying to be nice and I made a very bad comment. I was very infatuated with my comments and very proud of myself when I said, "legit, I'm trying to be nice and I'm making a splash."\
\
To this day, I still remember to be very careful to not drop the glass when I get into an interview. I remember to wipe and replace the glass when I leave the room. It's all very unpleasant and I hope to not look back in the last few years and be proud of myself for something. I wanted a funny story to look back at, and I got a funny story. I guess I still got my wish.\
\
I do not like the word wreck, but I was that for the next ten minutes. I had every answer memorized (even though I claimed they were perfect), and I was forgetting them as he spoke. My favorite book was a totally blank answer. Believe it or not, I finished the Great Gatsby just the night before. To make it worse, I started talking about a comic book from middle school. This was a book about nothing and I was a textbook fraud. I was no scholar, distinguished or not. I was just a child who was too clumsy to hold a cup of water outside of a bag.\
\
But then something strange occurred. Since I presumed I had already given up, I ceased striving for perfection. I took some time, and said, \'93I\'92m very sorry. I\'92m so nervous right now and I really want to come here and I\'92m showing you why this is such a bad fit for me.\'94\
\
Mr. Henderson smiled for the first time and said he wanted me to relax, and asked why I was so stressed. I ended up chatting with him, not in an interview sort of way, but as a person. I explained how I tried to overcome my perfectionist tendencies and my fear of making mistakes. We discussed how the state of being \'93genuine\'94 was paradoxically more difficult than being \'93perfect.\'94\
\
I left that interview certain I was not going to get in, but a few weeks later I was surprised with an acceptance letter. Mr. Henderson even left a small note saying he valued my \'93honesty under pressure.\'94\
\
This entire experience was a lesson in being a \'93perfect\'94 candidate and how that really isn\'92t the goal. If I had simply sat in front of him and parroted memorized speeches he wouldn\'92t have had the chance to get to know me.\
\
As embarrassing as it was to spill water, it was actually a good thing because it was a good opportunity to demonstrate how I deal with messes - literally. I realized that growth comes not because you get something right the first time, but because you can laugh at yourself, wipe the water, and keep the conversation going.\
\
}