{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I feel like I spend about half my life looking at screens, and I feel like there has to be some better way to spend my time! Social media is another thing that I don't want to imagine my life without. I feel like there is some sort of social contract at my age where I have friends that I periodically through text and social media just to feel connected. It is odd but is common. \
\
I am on social media so I don't feel like I am 'out of the loop.' If I am not on TikTok or Instagram, I feel like nobody I know would even remember me. Social media lets me stay connected with friends, like when we send each other random and dumb memes at 11 PM, and to my cousins in Florida without having to call them, and during COVID it was so important. I understand why people appreciate having social media connected worlds.\
\
There\'92s this thing that I notice gets worse with aging, I would call it the bad side of things. I think I have lost the ability to concentrate. I try to find a study spot and motivate myself to do my history homework. I pick up my phone with the intentions of only checking one notification and then somehow miraculously turned a five minute task into a forty-five minute slot of my life. I watched countless videos of people cooking and organizing their closets. I have done the bare minimum, which is to open the assignment, and I have not written a single sentence to my essay. Why do I feel like my brain has shortened my attention span to only do things that are fifteen seconds long. I feel the habit of reaching for my phone every few pages of the book I'm supposed to be reading for English. I feel like I am under some powerful spell. It is scary to think that the \'93scroll\'94 has this kind of control over people.\
\
The "highlight reel" is the worst part. People use filters. People only post when they do cool things. People only post pics when they are at the beach or out with a ton of friends. When I am bored at home in sweatpants and I see someone in my school post a cute pic at the beach or with a ton of friends, I get a little jealous. It makes me feel like I'm not doing teenage stuff Somehow I am comparing my behind the scenes to other people's highlights. It's not a competition, but it feels like one.\
\
It is tough enough trying to balance school and free time. I always try to delete social media and keep school my main priority. But I always give in and find myself glued to my phone again. I love seeing the social media posts my friends make and always look at the group chat to see what thoughts were exchanged. It is impossible to completely put your feel away from social media. It was designed to catch your attention and to keep you wanting to look. I am always trying to catch myself in the act of spending too much time on my phone. I should be studying, and instead, I should put my phone in the other room. I will see how long I last. I will put my phone away and see how I feel about it later.\
\
}