{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Everyone seems so busy nowadays. My friends worry about getting good SAT scores or stress themselves out building insane resumes for college, but that kind of stuff not for me. People like to call me "chill" which I guess is more polite than saying I have a complete lack of urgency. My idea of a great day is not about being productive or achieving some big goal. It\'92s about little things that actually feel good.  \
\
My ideal day would definitely have to start late. I am not an early riser. I would get out of bed when the sun is already shining, and the first stop would be the kitchen to make a cup of tea. Coffee is not my thing; it\'92s too much caffeine and I prefer to keep my energy at a nice level five. Probably I would go for an Earl Grey or an herbal tea if I want to be a bit more relaxed. Then, for two hours, I would just sit with a book, I really like sci-fi and I love fully immersing myself into a nice story when my house is quiet.\
\
I had planned to go out and have fun and not be cooped in the house anymore. Me and my friends had planned to eat lunch together at a taco place by my house. As a group, we don't like to do anything too crazy. It doesn't bother us to stay in a booth for a long time, just eating salsa and chips and talking. That's the best part, we are really relaxed, and it doesn't take much to keep us entertained, we just chat and enjoy each others company. \
\
After we eat lunch, we go to someone's house, and play video games. I'm not into the games where people are super competitive, and shout at each other with their headsets. I like the co-op games like *Stardew Valley* and *Overcooked.* I think its funny failing a level and just laughing together, its not all about the score. It really is about the vibes.\
\
When the sun starts going down, that's the time I usually get home. The peak of my perfect day has to be the couch phase. I just want to be on the couch watching a show I've already seen a bunch of times, like The Office or some documentary, and my cat, Mochi, always comes to plop down next to me. He's the exact same as me. He loves to just chill and be warm. The best thing is to be wrapped up in a big, cozy blanket with Mochi purring by my side. \
\
I get why some people may think that's boring, but it's ideal for me. Life is stressful and loud as it is, why would I want to add on to that? I spend long days at school and just want a quiet day with my favorite people and my cat. I don't need to hike a mountain to feel accomplished. Sometimes just relaxing is the ultimate sign of a good day.\
\
}