{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 When discussing the decline of natural ecosystems and the introduction of new fauna and flora, people often cite global warming and large fields of plastic. However, for Australians, the introduction of the cane toad is one of the most monumental mistakes. In 1935, approximately 100 cane toads were brought to Queensland from Hawaii to control the population of beetles affecting sugar cane crops. This was foolish, and rather than solving the problem, it created a new one. The cane toad is a prime example of why we should think before we take things into our own hands in regards to nature.\
\
The first lesson is that we will never know exactly how an animal will act when introduced to an unfamiliar environment. In this case, the scientist thought the cane toads would eat grey-back cane beetles. However, the beetles were on top of the cane sugar stalks, and cane toads can't jump that high. To make things worse, the toads were active at night, and the beetles were during the day. The toads were supposed to control the beetle population, but instead, they ate the native insects, small lizards, and even bird eggs. This illustrates the environmental risks of relocating a species.\
\
Cane toads exemplify the toxic food chains lesson, as they illustrate the ripple effect food chains have. If something bites a cane toad, the big glands on its shoulders ooze poison. Predators in places like Hawaii or South America tend to leave these toads alone, as they either have evolved the ability to handle the toxins, or have evolved the ability to ignore the toad. However, in Australia, animals like quolls, goannas, and freshwater crocodiles had no previous interactions with toads. They would see a big, juicy toad and think it was a snack, and would die because of the poison. This example illustrates the sudden reduction of a niche in a food web. By eliminating the top predator, everything else is impacted. This further exemplifies the notion of a ripple effect of food chains.\
\
The lesson of how fast a mistake can spiral out of control is especially frustrating. Those original 100 toads were now over 200 million. They spread across the country like a slow-motion wave, moving further west every year. They can be virtually impossible to control. It\'92s a mistake that is permanent. It can be a lesson that once we let the \'93genie out of the bottle\'94 with an invasive species, there is virtually no way to control them.\
\
The manure spreader case, like the cane toad case, demonstrates the need for care, for even with a, \'93good intent\'94, as in trying to save crops, the lack of an understanding of the natural, of the environment, can be devastating. The balance of nature must be respected, for once it is unbalanced, the damage may be irreparable. It is a mistake that Australia is still suffering the consequences from over 90 years later, a mistake that should never be repeated.\
\
}