{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 There is a common tendency today to mention Orwell's 1984 when analyzing modern news stories. With discussions of \\"Big Brother\\" or intrusive government surveillance occurring at street corners, there is a tendency to associate Orwellian themes with modern news. Most analyze news this way and completely miss the point. Aldous Huxley is a much better contemporary author for analyzing today\'92s news stories, particularly his *Brave New World.* Society is influenced by Orwell's fear of control, also influenced by Huxley's fear of distraction and pleasure, the real concern for today's world. \
\
In 1984, the government controls the people through fear, with the Thought Police, prisons like Room 101, and the fear of being \\"vaporized\\". They run a tight and oppressive dictatorship. Some modern countries embrace this style of government, but most modern countries do not operate this way. Most people also wouldn\'92t take a screen yelling at them every day. They value their freedom, or what they believe is freedom.\
\
Brave New World being the more realistic book makes sense because in Huxley\'92s book the government doesn\'92t need to use brute force to make people obey because they really like their \'93soft\'94 enslavement. In contrast to 1984, where the government controls the information people can access, in brave New World the populace is not reading because they spend their time experiencing \'93feelies\'94 (4D movies) and taking \'93soma\'94, a drug that makes them feel good and is always happy. \
\
This is similar to our modern,  social media and streaming services. No, we aren\'92t being policed to keep us off the streets. Instead, we are locked inside of our homes consuming tiktok and Netflix.  Out of the multitude of entertainment options, people ignore the important issues like the climate and government. In the same way that Huxley\'92s characters ignore everything to get more consumer products and unfulfilled online, we are told that we get happiness online and through consumer spending.\
\
The two examples illustrate two sides of the same coin: the oppression of the flow of information versus an overload of information. In \\\\"1984\\\\" censorship is so strict that history is constantly rewritten. In \\\\"Brave New World\\\\" there is so much information that the audience is overwhelmed. This is similar to the Internet censorship we experience to some degree. There is an overload of information each day, some of it is designed to distract or even designed to hurt us, and we slip deeper and deeper into the algorithms. Notifications blind us to the things that we should give our focus to, while they trick us into focusing on unimportant nonsense.\
\
It's true that \\\\"1984\\\\" is an important example of the possible extremes of government control; however, the reality we experience is closer to \\\\"Brave New World\\\\". While we aren't living under the thumb of a dictator, we are living under an entertainment regime designed to spoon-feed information and distractions. There is a double-edged sword here. We have everything we want, but at what cost? We are living in a world where addiction to the distractions and entertainment is withering our focus on true and meaningful engagement in a world where we have the potential for great things.\
\
}