{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 While studying history, we often focus on great battles or important historical figures. However, there are important details in history that are often ignored or hidden. One example is the history of the comfort women, a sensitive topic that is crucial to understanding the South Korea and Japan conflict to this day. \
\
During World War II, the Japanese army captured and enslaved women of all nationalities. Most of them were from Korea, but there were also women from China and the Philippines. We are talking about thousands of women of all ages. Due to the stigma and pain of the survivors, this topic was for a long time ignored until the late 90s, when survivors like Kim Hak-sun began testifying. When that happened, everything changed.\
\
The current relationship between Japan and South Korea is greatly affected by the events of the second world war. Although it was many decades ago, it still seems as though the war is still occurring, especially with the ongoing tensions in the world of politics. The major problem is that Many Koreans believe that Japan has not publicly apologized. Japan claims that this issue was settled decades ago with diplomatic agreements in 1965 and in 2015, where they paid money to a fund for the victims and survivors. However, the survivors and many members of the Korean community felt as though the 2015 agreement was made without consideration of the voices of the women involved in the situation.\
\
This creates a lot of conflict. For instance, there is a case of the \'91Statues of Peace\'92 \'96 which is a statue of a young girl seated on a chair \'96 that activists have placed in front of Japanese Embassies. The Japanese government requests for the activists to remove the statue, which angers the South Korean government even more. This is a continuous and self-sustaining conflict where Japan and South Korea seem to have a peace treaty for a year and then break peace the next year through a trade war or a protest concerning the second world war.\
\
While studying Japan and South Korea, I realized how much the present is determined by the past. Despite North Korea's ongoing threats, the two democracies cannot work together because of historical grievances that impact the present. This example demonstrates the limitations of financial resources and treaties when parties feel the truth is not fully recognized. \
\
The case of the comfort women is not closed. It is not a historical footnote, but rather an extension of a contemporary concern. The relations between Korea and Japan will likely remain strained until both parties find a way to mutually acknowledge and remember the past. History is not only about dates; it\'92s about people and the wounds of the past that people still carry.\
\
}