{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Rumi's poems appear, on first glance, to be purely romantic in nature. One should consider the poet's mystic background, where the writings appear more existential, searching for the human soul's final destination or goal in divinity. Rumi, a teacher in Sufism, wrote the famous *Masnavi*, which is a primary text for the Sufi schools and a very foundational text for the divine union.\
\
People can understand Rumi only when they know of Sufism. In a sense, Sufism captures the deepest aspects of the spiritual journey of Islam. While religions have different rules and varying degrees of rigidity, Sufis place emphasis on the heart. Heart-centered spirituality teaches us that we are all made of the same divine source, and the fundamental goal of our lives is to return to that source. In the *Masnavi*, Rumi describes a reed flute that sounds sad and melancholy, and he explains that the flute is in a sad state because it has been cut off from the reed bed where it belongs. In this sense, he is using the reed flute as a metaphor for us; we sing and express deep feelings of longing to return to our source, which is God.\
\
In many of his works, Rumi speaks about the importance of \'91killing the ego\'92. Sufism teaches that the ego, or the *nafs*, acts as a veil separating us from the truth. Rumi explains that many of us are distracted by our selfishness, fame, and fortune, and uses stories (sometimes funny, sometimes strange) from the *Masnavi* to demonstrate how people get caught up in their own minds. Through his works, he teaches that people must lose their \'91self\'92 in order to be filled with the love of God; a little like a drop of water that ceases to exist when it falls into the sea, though it does not lose its existence, it merely becomes part of something greater.\
\
What Rumi means with "Divine Love" is a very critical concept within his work. While many see God as a judge, being very wrathful up in the sky, Rumi sees God as the "Beloved." This is what makes his poems so passionate. The language, which evokes longing, and even inebriation (drunk in love) evokes the feeling one gets when praying. This is a reflection of the Islamic mystical tradition of *Dhikr*, the remembrance of God. For Rumi, everything that exists in the universe, the stars, the trees, and people, is perpetually "dancing" about God. This is where the "Whirling Dervishes" originated, his followers who started to literally dance to attain a state of religious ecstasy.\
\
Ultimately, Rumi's poetry is not a collection of quotes to post on social media. Rumi's work is the reflection of being a Sufi. Within the *Masnavi*, he elucidates that the way to God is through the heart, and love. He reminds his audience that we, in our longing, may feel disconnected like the reed flute, but in truth, we are connected to the Divine. This ability to see within is what he is encouraging people to find.\
\
}