{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 U.S. history tends to focus on two things, the Revolution, and the Constitution. However, the history of how the U.S. became a world power in the first place is just as interesting, and in some ways, just as shady. In the late 18th and early 19th centuries, the U.S. was a newly founded country, a new startup, rather a business without any of its own tech. In order to compete with Great Britain, Americans industrialized through means of industrial espionage, which means the country spied on British factories.\
\
At the time, Great Britain was the industrialized world. All industrial revolutions were happening fast in Front of Great Britain, especially the Fabrics. Britain knew the value of the machines, just like all the first world countries today, and had a law that it was not acceptable to export blueprints. It was also illegal for industrialized workers to leave the country that the company was based in. Great Britain wanted to keep a monopoly on all of the technology.\
\
Samuel Slater is arguably the most well-known "thief" in American history. In the United States, we refer to him as the "Father of the American Industrial Revolution," while in England, they referred to him as "Slater the Traitor." Slater had been an employee of a British Mill, where he learned how Arkwright spinning machines functioned. Since he was unable to carry any schematics with him without risking imprisonment, he took to memorization, and then sailed to America, disguised. In 1790, Slater constructed Rhode Island's first fully automated, water-powered textile mill, entirely from memory. Essentially, he brought a fully functioning industry to America in his mind.\
\
Another great example is Francis Cabot Lowell. In the early 1800s, he went on a \\"vacation\\" to England to buy some textiles, where he toured some British factories. Lowell behaved as a wealthy gentleman and the factory owners let him in thinking he posed no threat. However, Lowell studied the power looms which he later returned to America and improved. He started the Boston Manufacturing Company making cloth faster. He was able to combine all the steps in making cloth into one factory, something no British factory had done.\
\
This was something the US government actually wanted, as the first Secretary of the Treasury, Alexander Hamilton, said in his \\"Report on Manufactures\\" that the US had to obtain European technology by any means necessary. People were offered patents and bounty to bring overseas inventions.\
\
There is an element of irony here. Presently, the U.S. is vocal when it comes to other nations pilfering trade secrets or intellectual property. During the Industrial Era, disregard for intellectual property was a matter of survival. The U.S. needed to gain independence from England, even if it meant stealing from them. Once the U.S. acquired the means to self-industry, it became more than a country of farms. It became an industrial powerhouse. The economy would have remained stagnant for decades, had it not been for these traitorous spies.\
\
}