{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Last summer was arguably the worst summer in my life. After two years of my parents fighting, the divorce was finally finalized. It felt like my world was crashing down. I was lost, I had no idea who I was. I tied so much of my identity around being the "peacekeeper" of the family. I was completely and utterly drained. When my mom said we should do a trip to Bali so we could 'reset' I knew I had to get myself out of the house, but I had little hope that it would do anything to help the current state I was in. \
\
As soon as the plane landed in Denpasar, it was a bombardment of new sights, smells and experiences. The air was thick and warm like a blanket, and it was filled with the sweet smell of flowers and incense. Our accommodation was a little place in Ubud surrounded by rice paddies. We were there for about 4 days, and I just slept for the days. I think my body was just coming to the realisation that it no longer had to remain on high alert for any sudden outbursts.\
\
We visited Tirta Empul temple one morning to participate in the purification ceremony. I'm not super religious, but I do appreciate the power of rituals, and standing in the cold water with a bunch of strangers was an oddly communal experience. I thought about all the stress I had been carrying with me, the yelling, the silence, the boxes. I realized I had been carrying the weight of the last year like it was my job to fix.  I felt a little lighter after the ceremony.\
\
However, it was just the life! The. Pause. The Bali vibe. Most of my life, especially in high school, felt like a constant race. A lot of the people I was around were seemingly lost. In Bali, people felt more present, and I felt I should honour the slower pace. I spent my afternoons walking and sitting in cafes. I even started drawing, which I hadn't done in a long time, and I had really missed it. The sad kid in a divorce was not the real me. The real me was the kid who enjoyed art, the kid who loved quiet, and the kid who added a little spice to things.\
\
I spent a lot of time contemplating the situation of my parents. Whenever I thought of my parents\'92 divorce I saw it as a failure of the family unit. However, being in a beautiful and tranquil location, I was able to think about it in a more positive light. I realized my parents\'92 divorce was a mere change, not a failure. It was like the change of the seasons or the ocean tides. A change that I could now breathe with relief and not feel guilty about. \
\
When the time came for us to leave, I did not feel like a brand new person, however, I did feel like I had my \'93spark\'94 back. I understood that there was a long journey ahead of me, and healing from trauma doesn\'92t work like the swift resolution of a movie plot. However, thanks to Bali, I was able to reconnect with the person I was prior to everything breaking. I discovered that despite having the world around you collapse, it is indeed possible to build something new, and, possibly even better. I am back in school, and although some things continue to be difficult, I make a conscious effort to carry a piece of the Bali peace with me.\
\
}