{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Rosa Parks is most well known for one day in 1955 when she refused to give up her seat on a bus in Montgomery. Everyone learns about this in history class. However, her story doesn't end here. Parks had a very successful, albeit difficult, career as a civil rights activist after leaving Alabama.\
\
Things were particularly difficult for Rosa and her family after the boycott. Even though the local government lost the court case, things did not improve for her and her family. Parks was fired from her job, and so was her husband Raymond. The family started receiving death threats, and things continued to get worse for them, until they had to relocate to Detroit in 1957. What a lot of people don\'92t realize is that she was essentially forced out of her home because of the backlash from the community, after becoming a civil rights hero.\
\
When arriving in Detroit, she could have taken a break and live quietly, but she didn't. She became very involved in politics again. In the 60s she began working for John Conyers, a Black Congressman. She worked in his office for over 20 years. This was a big deal because she was no longer a symbol and was actually helping people with housing, jobs, and discrimination. She showcased a different side of herself than what most people would expect. She was involved in the Black Power movement. She was known as the quiet, old woman at that time, but she went to the same marches as Malcolm X and Stokely Carmichael. This will likely surprise people.  \
\
In 1987, she started the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self Development, which focused on the next generation. This program took teens on bus tours (which is a little ironic) that educated them on the Underground Railroad and the Civil Rights Movement. She wanted to preserve the history of the movement and what people fought for. In her later years she traveled a lot, and spoke at schools and events to inspire young people and keep the energy of the movement alive.\
\
Another thing people forget is that she didn't just care about bus seating. She also spoke against apartheid in South Africa, and was always advocating for fair housing laws. She proved that being an activist is not about just one big moment, but being in it for the long haul. \
\
Rosa Parks\'92 contribution after the boycott shows that she wasn\'92t just a \'93tired seamstress\'94 who happened to sit down one day. She was a lifelong revolutionary who fought for justice, and was not afraid to make her life difficult. She kept the movement alive long after the 1950s through her work in Detroit and her emphasis on education. She showed the world that real change is a lot of work, and it is even harder once the cameras are gone.\
\
}