{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The Fermi paradox revolves around the issue that, if the universe is as vast and old as we think, having had enough time and enough planets to have developed intelligent civilizations, then where is everybody? The paradox was coined after the physicist Fermi, who, in one conversation, turned to the rest of the scientists, and, in the middle of the discussion, asked, \'93Where is everybody?\'94 The paradox is that it appears that life with the potential to be advanced enough to leave their home planet and get in contact with us, should have had enough opportunities to do so, and yet we have no evidence of alien life.\
\
To understand the importance of the Fermi paradox, we have to take into consideration the most current available evidence. First of all, it is important to understand that there is an uncountable number of stars in our galaxy, and we have confirmed that most of them possess planetary systems. Some of the planets that exist in those systems are located in what is called the \\\\"habitable zone\\\\". The \\\\"habitable zone\\\\" is that region around the star in a planetary system that is ideal for the existence of liquid water. This is just one of the dozens of variables we have to consider. If we only consider the age of the universe, we have a planet whose age is just a little over four billion years. The universe, however, is more than double this age. This abundance of time, if only a small percentage were able to produce intelligent life, then it is reasonable to think one of those civilizations should have been able to colonize their galaxy by now. Unfortunately, the evidence we have collected so far is astonishing. Until now, not a single one of those factors have been considered by us, and we have no way to prove that alien life ever existed.\
\
Taking into consideration the current state of knowledge regarding the cosmos, one can arrive at the conclusion that intelligent life may be worlds apart, if not fundamentally rare. Bacterial life may be incredibly abundant in the universe, however, the complex evolutionary intelligent life is extremely trigger sensitive - a species of particular interest may be extremely unlikely to trigger the needed evolutionary sequence. For example, Earth is an outlier in the cosmic history, with evolutionary quicks, and the blind watchmaker sequence of events, such as life supporting, relatively uniquely Earth positioned Sun; thermally and geologically stable (non-volcanic) steady state Earth with magnetosphere; large and geologically young Moon, and several evolutionary blind catastrophic mass extinctions. If such events generally occur at a lower frequency in the cosmos, then Earth\'92s civilization is an outlier, or anomaly. Though rare, this idea is generally and loosely connected to the Great Filter \'96 an event that life presumably evolves beyond on a universal scale. \
\
Looking from an obscure rational perspective, it can be assumed that the total number of species that reach a certain level of technological development within the universe are incredibly small; or, in other words, intelligent life, and subsequently civilizations, are relatively short-lived. Even if intelligent species geographically overlap to some small extent, there is no guarantee of communication ability. Civilizations are far too likely to descend into chaos and actively work to ensure their own demise through warfare, world-ending climate change, resource depletion, or through exponential technological advancement. If civilizations consistently only endure a few hundred of advanced technological years, it may be incredibly unlikely that two or more civilizations exist simultaneously and within a close enough region to interact.\
\
Looking for aliens and extraterrestrial life has always been fascinating. However, there is always the question of are the aliens looking for us? Well,  \
\
Some organizations, and people speculate the reason we have not found extraterrestrial life, is that they are looking for aliens using the wrong methods, and the wrong signals. Many people think that radio signals or communication that mimics or mimics life on Earth will work. However, high levels of aliens may not use channels and communication types that we can sense, such as low communication, laser communication, quantum communication, or communication methods that are not currently exists. Additionally, our efforts to hear radio signals, such as SETI, have scanned only a very small area of the cosmos, and the ranges of signals served are very small compared to the total ranges of frequencies that may be available.\
\
Some people think aliens may not be talking on purpose. A hypothesis has been presented that views Earth ambiguously or hides the Earth as a locked zoo, looking down on the Earth as a zoo, and the surrounding advanced species avoid making contact. A hypothesis has been presented whereby life exists but civilization avoid signal like a cross signal for the galaxy to be packed with life but not to be seen.\
\
This can all be part of the reason why life conceal communication signals, or the long distance barrier of communication of time. Travel is extremely complex, especially with the energy and the time. communication signal can take years and years to reach us. It can take centuries even if aliens exist and have inter business travel.\
\
The Fermi paradox ultimately makes us consider life, technology, and our position in the universe. Currently, we do not have enough data to tell what the answer is. However, as we learn more about exoplanets and develop our telescopes, we could potentially get closer to the truth.\
\
}