{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Even modern discussions on artificial intelligence are forced to recognize the relevance of Mary Shelley's *Frankenstein*. The story teaches the dangers of unprepared invention, cautioning on the dangers of creation across *any* field, even in the shadow of the superhuman. The early 1800s, when Shelley wrote *Frankenstein*, were as unprepared for A.I. as some argue we are now. The responsibilities, ethics, and dangers of even *barely* acceptable technology are of utmost importance when the stakes are the lives of sentient beings.\
\
Victor Frankenstein's fascination with creation is often compared to the current enthusiasm around AI. Victor is treating the creation of life as an accomplishment rather than as a responsibility. He speaks of praises, and then, as an act of decisive cowardice, when the Creature is alive, Victor bolts. This seems to be a portrayal of the attitude of most innovators, or researchers, with AI, as they try to create the next innovation without consideration. Victor's neglect of his creation is the same neglect most people with AI try to ignore, as they measure the impact of a creation without any responsible, moral, or ethical consideration of an impact. Neglect of creation is how almost all innovators with AI try to look responsible.\
\
Shelley shows us many reasons why the Creature is critical to this discussion, one of which is that the Creature clearly is not born evil. The Creature becomes violent after being repeatedly rejected and treated like a monster. He watches and learns from humans, reads, and tries to connect. He is violent because of the way people treat him. This is relevant to the topic because many AI systems learn from human data, which is often biased, cruel, and unfair. The Creature learns humanity through actions, while AI \'93learns\'94 from the information we have provided. When the data is filled with stereotypes, hate, and misinformation, that is what AI will mirror. A creator cannot simply blame their creation, as Shelley clearly shows.\
\
Considering Victor demonstrates the risk of evading responsibility for the harm your actions will cause. During his construction of the Creature, Victor makes his secret experiment and isolates himself, which parallels the development of certain AIs behind closed doors by a small, powerful, and reckless group. When the situation begins to deteriorate, Victor withholds the truth, even when the truth could save lives. This is reminiscent of the ongoing discussions about the lack of transparency and accountability. Given the inevitability of the impending fallout which will result from the reckless actions of Victors, the tools of AI will be employed to modify how we work, educate, police, and conduct warfare. Definite accountability looms over the champions of AI.\
Shelley\'92s choice of multiple perspectives (Walton, Victor, and the Creature) is a question of who has the right to narrate the story. This is relevant today because in addition to the practical, technical dimension of AI, there is the issue of whose participation in the decision-making processes is valued. Those who construct AI systems are most often not the individuals who are adversely affected by those systems. *Frankenstein* urges us to hear from the \'93Creature\'94 as well. This refers to not only the creators of a technology but also those who are overlooked but may be significantly affected by the technology.\
\
Frankenstein explores the theme of monsters, but primarily it studies the creator and the consequences and responsibilities involved in the act of creation, especially when the created being is beyond the creator\'92s control. That is essentially what the current AI debate is about.\
\
}