{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Bringing in pest-controlling cane toads to Australia in the 1930s was a reasonable choice in the 1930s. However, it was a mistake that Australia continues to deal with today. Australia\'92s introduction of cane toads into their ecosystem is an example of how introducing a species to an ecosystem can create long-term problems. Australia thought that cane toads would eat the cane beetles in the sugar cane fields. This is foreseen and adds to the idea of quick fixes. However, the quick fix was anything but quick. In 1935, Australia brought cane toads into their ecosystem, and with them, a long-term problem.\
\
Generally saying, humans are poor predictors of how a species will interact with and where it will survive. The toads actually did not solve the problem in the end. Despite the toads being the 'solution', the cane beetles were still a problem. The cane beetles had a problem, but it was not with being low to the ground. So, the 'solution' was to spread, contrary to the hope. This is an example of the lack of understanding humans have on the habitat and behavioral characteristics of a species.Toads entered Australia with unintentional positive and negative consequences. The toads are dangerous to animals at all stages of life. Eggs, tadpoles, and adult toads are all poisonous. Aussie predators, such as snake, quoll, goanna, and even some crocs, have never encountered a poisonous prey. Many of these predators died because of this. The toads negatively impacted the ecosystem by killing the native wildlife, already a fully functional ecosystem. One immigrated species impacted the ecosystem at a fundamental level. It\'92s more than \'93new species\'94 it\'92s \'93new everything\'94. The ecosystem, as well as the goanna, snake, quoll predators, and all life around it, changed, and potentially for the worse.\
\
\
Invasive species are infamous for their rapid and widespread reproduction. The toads, however, were even more fast spreading. They multiplied quickly, and once the toads originally established and started reproducing, it was too late to stop the spread of the toads. The toads adapted to all the northern Australia, minus the southern parts. The even more concerning part is life once the spread of the toads goes out of control. It is nigh impossible to control it, and the consequences are massive. It is unthinkable to imagine the toll it takes on life, a society, species, and the environment, because the consequences of an out of control species last for so many decades.\
\
This entire episode profoundly underscores the value of full-spectrum risk analysis with appropriate biosecurity measures. Nowadays, Australia takes a much more cautious approach, with more guidelines and studies carried out on biological control. There\'92s an understanding now that testing, risk assessment, and strategic foresight are necessary. Even the intention to assist can prove damaging. The intricate web of nature does not always accommodate our artificial mechanisms.\
\
Lastly, the tale of the cane toads is a true story of humility. It\'92s a reminder that ecosystems are not mechanical systems that allow for interchangeable components. The more people try to micromanage nature, the greater the chances that the solution will backfire. The cane toad story teaches us the need for more considerate means of pest control, with an appreciation for the intricate interconnections in the web of life.\
\
}