{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Walt Whitman fought for the ideal, big, and hopeful America with his literature with a clear and confident voice. During and after the American Civil War, this style of writing changed for Whitman. He wrote the book *Leaves of Grass* and before the War, Whitman wrote about and celebrated the everyday individual, the body, and also, the surroundings, with almost no fear at all, he also celebrated Democracy. Whitman also wrote poetry about serious subjects like, suffering, and Death. Whitman described the violence of the American Civil War and described his documentation of the violence and also his time spent in the War\'92s hospitals. Whitman, also along with the described violence, resided in and witnessed the country\'92s real violence. Whitman\'92s poetry, by the end of the War, still described his belief, along with new subjects, in America. He believed the country still needed to be re-shaped. His belief in America, and the country\'92s Democracy, also shaped the new poetry\'92s subjects.\
\
Though Whitman never fought in the war, it still became very personal for him because, in 1862, he traveled to Washington, D.C. after hearing his brother was possibly wounded. While there, he began to tour the various military hospitals, and ended up staying for years. While there, he helped injured soldiers by bringing them food, writing letters for them, and just sitting with them. From the poetic perspective of Whitman, this experience becomes relevant because Whitman was not writing about the war from a distant vantage; he like, was writing about the wars, and they were more than just headlines. He gazed at ordinary young people who were wounded, dying of infections, and suffering from war because he was there. That proximity is illustrated in the countless details and the warmth of his poems.\
\
Walt Whitman\'92s poetry was influenced by the war in that he began to use less elaborate language. Rather than focus on triumphs of the war. Whitman begins to focus on the intimacy of the war. Whitman\'92s poetry begins to focus on the intimacy of individual people and moments that describe the war's impact as a collective wound on a nation. In *Drum Taps*, as an example in *The Wound Dresser*, the speaker describes a hospital scene whereby a soldier walks from bed to bed as he observes and tries to comfort the wounded men. Whitman\'92s poetry describes the war as a painful intimate experience, where the nation is a giant hospital. His repeated focus on the war's bodies\'97bandages, blood, and weakness\'97describes the bodies that have suffered from the experience of war, and not the bodies that have simply experienced the celebration of war\
\
The civil war altered Whitman\'92s perspective and tone. At one point Whitman even sounded overly optimistic for the United States. After the war began, he mixed his writing with hope and grief. The best example of this is his poem, \'93O Captain! My Captain!\'94 It was written after Lincoln's assassination. It stands out from other Whitman\'92s poems because of its strict verse and tight structure, almost reminiscent of a song, and almost like one for a funeral. The central voice ecstatic that the \'93ship\'94 (the nation) has safely made it through the storm, but he cannot celebrate because the captain is dead. That mixture of triumph with loss was the feeling the war brought about, the perception of national unity at a great and terrible cost. Whitman\'92s war experience also broadened his understanding of democracy. At the war hospitals, he saw soldiers from all different states and classes, and all varying backgrounds suffering in the same rooms, this made his belief in \'93the people\'94 (the Americans) more sincere and much more real. It was forgoing the dualism of praise and blame, and for once he was right, in the absence of a civil war, Americans in democracy\'92s need would be deserving a care that flexible.\
\
Whitman's experience in the Civil War shaped his poetry to be more personal, sad, and grounded in reality. He still attempted to voice the sentiments of the whole country, but post-war, he conveyed to the audience that he had felt the country's suffering. The Civil War did not take Whitman's hope from him; it made him work for it.\
\
}