{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 During the 1700s-1800s, the U.S. was a growing nation trying to compete with larger countries. One of the biggest gaps the U.S. was trying to close was in the industry. Britain was the world leader in the Industrial Revolution, particularly in textiles, and wanted to keep its machines and methods a secret. As a result, much of America's early industrial growth involved what we now refer to as industrial espionage, or stealing trade secrets from different countries. \
\
During this time, textiles would be considered a high-tech industry. Britain was the first country to invent machines such as the spinning jenny, waterframe, and power loom. Along with this, they built a fully functioning factory system that could produce cloth at a faster and cheaper rate than hand weavers. Britain was also the first to draft laws to protect its industrial advantage. The British government prohibited skilled workers from leaving the country and kept the plans for their machines a secret. The belief was that if Britain controlled the knowledge, they would also control the market.\
\
Americans wanted to set up their own factories rather than buy from overseas. Thus, some people decided to \'91borrow\'92 technology from the British. A typical example is Samuel Slater. Slater, an English worker, knew how the machines in the textile factories operated. In 1789, he immigrated to the United States, even though the British government was against skilled workers leaving their country. Although he did not bring industrial plans with him, he had the designs memorized. In Rhode Island, he was part of the team that constructed one of the earliest successful water-powered cotton-spinning mills in the United States. Although he is often referred to as the \'91Father of the American Industrial Revolution\'92, the British considered him to be a traitor for stealing their industrial secrets.\
\
Another important individual is Francis Cabot Lowell. During the early 1800s, Lowell was able to visit British textile factories. Because foreigners could not visit the factories, Lowell had to keenly observe the British factories and retain as much as he could. On his return to Massachusetts, he collaborated with other investors and engineers to replicate the power loom, and he developed the first fully integrated factory system in which all steps of the production process; spinning and weaving that occurred in one location. This system was named the Lowell System, and as with all of the other early American industrialists, he is not known to have "sneaked out" with any British documents, however, he did use , and was most likely the first American industrialist to utilize, information that he was not supposed to take. Lowell also integrated the hiring of young women to his system (\'91Lowell Mill Girls\'92).   \
\
Applying the use of the term ~espionage~ to describe the actions of Lowell may be considered a stretch. Assuming the purpose of arriving at a final conclusion is to take all, and the most important, facets of the issue into consideration, the result is not as straightforward as one would wish. On the one side, there were rules to be broken, and there were guidelines that were put in place to protect the British. On the other side, the U.S. was fully reliant on British imports to survive economically. The U.S. had to liberate itself in order to use all of the political, economic, and military potential that was available to it. At that time, the world was not identical to the one that exists today, and without the plethora of international intellectual property laws that exist today, early industrialized nations acted as though underlying industrial knowledge was available at no cost.\
\
The effects were astonishing. From the U.S.'s own perspective, constructing an industrial base that provided the country with jobs, spurred new innovations, and fostered the development of new factories and cities, was a remarkable achievement. It was made possible through the rapid assimilation of British textile technologies. However, this achievement came at a price. It increased the suffering and operational risks of workers in the factories, and heightened the demand for cotton, exacerbating the connection of industrialized North with the Southern systemic slavery. American industrial espionage of the period shows the lengths to which nations will go to achieve rapid technological and influential catch-up.\
\
}