{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Figuring out who is potentially the richest individual to have ever lived is often viewed as a simple question at first glance. However, it is far more complex. The word \'93rich\'94 can mean many different things depending on the context. Currently, we can easily search the Internet for a person\'92s net worth, but for individuals who lived hundreds or thousands of years ago, currency was completely different. Even if we could somehow quantify their gold or real estate holdings, it is still likely to be challenging to compare their value to modern value, particularly because the world\'92s economy was far more limited than what it is today. \
\
Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos, for instance, are two of the wealthiest individuals *currently living*, and their worth can be measured quite easily because it is all directly associated with their stock holdings. However, when we examine history as a whole, we may be surprised to learn that even with a net worth of $200 billion, it may not even put them close to the top of the list when evaluating the state of the economy at that time. Although having $200 billion in wealth is certainly an impressive number relative to everyone else in the world today, it is a small portion of the total amount of wealth in the world.\
\
One well-known historical example is Mansa Musa; the king of Mali in the 1300s. He is said to be the richest person to have ever lived due to Mali's control over the gold and salt trade, and Musa himself possessing an incredible amount of gold. There is a story of Musa's pilgrimage to Mecca that talks about how he gave so much gold in Cairo that he actually caused an economic crisis. While some of the details may have been exaggerated, it does give some insight into the level of wealth he had. The problem is there there is no bank statement to confirm these values.\
\
A good competing example is the first emperor of Rome, Augustus Caesar. The Roman Empire had vast amounts of land, taxes, and resources. Some estimates say Augustus controlled about twenty percent of the Roman Empire's economy. Estimates place that value in the trillions of dollars today. The problem is that most of this 'wealth' was not in Augustus's ownership of the Roman Empire. He was wealthy in the sense of power he controlled, not so much the wealth he had.\
\
Let's not forget about Genghis Khan. He had an empire that most people can only dream of, and, interestingly, he didn\'92t collect treasure like most people would expect. Mongol riches were largely given away, and Khan\'92s personal riches were not a prominent part of the empire. He\'92s a good example to show that just because you have the \\"largest empire\\" doesn't mean you would be the \\"richest.\\"\\\\" Genghis Khan's empire was extremely large, but he didn't have a lot of money. \\\\"strangely, he didn't collect a lot of treasure. \\\\"People would assume that the Mongol empire, would have a lot of money, and that money would have to come personally from Khan, but that would be wholly incorrect. Going the other way in history from Genghis Khan we have John D. Rockefeller. Oil was a huge part of the economy at one point and Rockefeller was the huge part of the American Economy. Factually documenting super-rich people was made a lot easier by Rockefeller. He made massive amounts of money, and if we adjust everything to today's economy, he would likely have more money than the majority of billionaires we see today. It's easy to track what he was doing because he was doing a lot of massive things.Who is the richest? My answer would depend on how you define personal wealth. If we mean the most personally verifiable wealth, Rockefeller is a great answer. If it is most wealth and resources amassed, Augustus and Mansa Musa probably take the cake, with Mansa Musa being the most popular candidate for richest ever due to his excessive gold wealth. Personally, I think Mansa Musa is the best answer even if exact values are contested, as so many accounts mention gold in Mali, and the spending being a notable factor. In the end, wealth isn't a number, it's power, control, and the scope of the world you live in.\
\
}