{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Eutectics are important in materials science because they describe certain behaviors in metallic mixtures when they undergo melting and freezing processes. More specifically, in an alloy (which is a combination of metals, or a metal and other elements), a eutectic phenomenon involves melting of a combination of metal elements at a comparatively lower temperature than other metallic mixtures. As for eutectic compositions, they behave in a manner similar to that of a single substance alloy. Instead of exhibiting a melting temperature range, it melts (and crystallizes) at a specific temperature.\
\
Imagine combining metals like lead and tin. In a phase diagram (which illustrates different states of matter present at certain temperatures and compositions), there is usually a liquidus line that forms a deep \'93V\'94 shape. At the bottom of the \'93V\'94 shape, there is an area called the eutectic point, which is the minimum temperature at which the alloy can exist in a liquid state, whereas the eutectic composition signifies the specific ratio of the components at that temperature.\
\
What happens when a eutectic alloy solidifies? Two solid phases form simultaneously, rather than just one solid phase growing first. The resultant structure is fine, layered, and interwoven microscopically. This specific microstructure is important because it influences a metal's overall properties, and the structure is determined by the phases present in the microstructure. For example, the microstructure can affect a metal\'92s strength, brittleness, and ductility.\
\
Eutectics play an important role in engineering metals, especially in casting and manufacturing. For one, processing is more predictable, because the alloy melts and freezes at a single temperature. Better fluidity during casting can be achieved using eutectic and near-eutectic compositions which allow the liquid metal to completely fill the molds and capture smaller features more easily. This is one reason eutectic alloys are used in soldering. The tin-lead solder is used for joining electronic circuits, and is eutectic because it has a sharp melting point and freezes quickly. This is helpful to avoid overheating tedious components.\
\
Eutectics assist engineers in customizing mechanical properties. Strength can be increased by fine eutectic microstructure because the two phases impede easy deformation. However, depending on what phases form, it can also magnify brittleness. One of the eutectic phases could be hard and brittle, and too much of it could promote cracking of the alloy. So, engineers have to balance properties depending on the functions of the part; Tough (crack resistance) or hard (wear resistance).\
\
Eutectics also assist in solving practical engineering problems such as hot cracking and welding. If alloy composition partitioning during solidification occurs towards low melting eutectic, thin layers of liquid can be trapped intergranularly for longer than anticipated. This makes the metal weaker as it approaches high temperatures and results in cracking as it cools. Engineering eutectics is how engineers select filler metals, compositions, and heat treatments to minimize these issues.\
\
Eutectics integrate chemistry, temperature, and microstructure and this is what makes them important. For metals engineers, being able to identify the eutectic point and the type of structure it produces can mean the difference between a part that casts clean and operates dependable, and a part that cracks, warps, or fails prematurely.\
\
}