{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The Japanese military's use of sexual slavery against girls and women during World War II, many of whom were Korean, is one of the darkest, most contemporary East Asian tragedies as well as one of the most important contributing factors to the ongoing issues between South Korea and Japan. The war concluded in 1945, but the psychological damage was only beginning. For over 40 years, most of the victims remained quiet, as they felt ashamed, feared, and were scorned by society. The impact of the women's stories on the politics, education, and the relationship between the two countries was significant.\
\
While Japan occupied Korea from 1910\'961945, Korea had almost no means of authority to safeguard its citizens. Many historians state that Japanese soldiers managed comfort stations, where women were victimized. Some women were abducted, some deceived by fake job and schooling opportunities, and some coerced by destitution and wartime conditions. Details vary from case to case, but the overall system was ruthlessly organized. After the war, countless survivors went home; many had injuries and emotional trauma, and most felt that they could not speak about it. This silence made it easy to overlook the problem for a long time.\
\
The early 1990s marked the beginning of a change when survivors began publicly advocating for and speaking about the atrocities committed against them. Kim Hak-sun's testimony about the atrocities committed against her in 1991 is one of the best-known instances. This resulted in a rise in lawsuits as well as increased media coverage. Weekly protests began in front of the Japanese embassy in Seoul, South Korea, calling for an official apology and legal accountability. These protests have become an iconic representation of the struggle, and protests in front of the Japanese embassy remain to this day. The \'93Statue of Peace,\'94 a memorial of a young girl, is a reminder of the victims.\
\
The most significant issue in Japanese-Korean relations is that the issue is not exclusively historical. It is also about the historical narrative and history's acknowledgment. Several apologies and statements, such as the Kono Statement of 1993, which acknowledged the existence of the military and subsequent remorseful statements from Prime Ministers after official visits, have been made by Japan. However, many Koreans believe that these apologies have been politically modified and subsequently remained unchanged. Some Japanese believe the issue has been settled by previous treaties; therefore, Korea's comments are redundant. This ongoing dispute has perpetuated a lack of trust.\
\
In 2015, Japan and South Korea made a deal to resolve the comfort women issue \'93finally and irreversibly\'94 to include money for a fund to support survivors. It was criticized by victims and advocates as a rushed process without the survivors. South Korea\'92s government later questioned the deal. Japan believed Korea broke the promise, and Korea believed Japan was still not taking responsibility.\
\
The comfort women issue, still affects trade, security cooperation, and public sentiment. Leaders working together to address shared concerns, like North Korea, are sidelined by the historical issue. Southeast Asia will continue to feel the impacts of these historical issues. It will not be easy for South Korea and Japan to rebuild these ties. Honest education, respect for the survivors, and rebuilding trust instead of token political agreements will be necessary steps to resolve these issues.\
\
}