{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Most people recognize Rosa Parks for her act of defiance for not giving up her seat on the Montgomery, Alabama bus, and subsequently sparking the Montgomery bus boycott and the civil rights movement. What many people fail to recognize is that Parks did not stop her contribution to the movement after the boycott even though she became an iconic face of the movement. Life after the boycott was not easy for Parks, but she still stayed an activist involved in the movement in many facets.\
\
After the boycott, Parks and her husband Raymond lost their jobs, and their lives became very difficult due to the way Montgomery was and the threats being made against them. In 1957, they moved to Detroi, Michgian in an attempt to escape and start anew. Many people believed that the move north meant that Parks had abandoned the movement, but in fact she began to struggle against Segregation and racism and many of the same forms of discrimination that were evident in the north against housing, jobs, and even policing. Out of the many forms of discrimination, Parks began with the policing.\
\
One of the most important issues Rosa Parks worked on after the boycott was politics. In 1965, she began working for Congressman John Conyers, an incoming civil rights-supporting representative from Michigan. She worked in John Conyers\'92 office for several years and assisted in the community, responding to the concerns of constituents and helping them with governmental access. Although this may seem less impressive than a protest, this work was crucial. Civil rights work is not just a big\
speech; civil rights also concerns the support and representation of people in the system, and giving them a voice. Parks focused on the plight of Black people and issues like poverty and job discrimination.\
\
Parks remained an activist and civil rights advocate, actively participating in civil rights organizations and events, addressing youth, and leveraging her notoriety to focus attention on civil rights. Parks wasn't an activist for celebrity status; she was advocating for change in America. Parks championed the fight for racial justice, including advocacy for the rights of Black prisoners and the protection of Black communities. In Detroit, she was an advocate for Black youth and families and the active, even when controversial, voice of protest against inequity. \
\
Later in her life, Parks was a co-founder of the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self Development, which was concerned with the education and empowerment of young people. This also indicated the continuing evolution of her activism post-Montgomery; she believed the movement was for the young. In the post-1960s era, to keep the momentum of civil rights activism alive, she felt it essential to educate young people on history, leadership, and self-respect, so it would not die after the significant accomplishments of the 1960s.\
\
Overall, Rosa Parks\'92 contribution to civil rights after the Montgomery bus boycott was about persistence. She didn\'92t stop once the boycott ended, or once the cameras moved. From politics, to community activism, to speaking out, and educating young people, she remained active for decades. Her life demonstrates that civil rights progress doesn't stem from a single moment, but from people who continue to work after that moment has passed, even when that work is difficult and the spotlight is gone.\
\
}