{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I had no expectations of social media when I first made my accounts. I thought it was silly and pointless and was mostly a way for everyone to stay connected. I always thought it was a little mean how everyone would exclude the kids who weren't on IG and snap. Kids would always talk about posts and use the apps to set up hangouts. I decided I would jump on social media to stay connected and to avoid the social pressure. I set the boundaries for myself. I told myself I would use it solely for checking in with friends to avoid the pressure of social media.\
\
I do feel connected sometimes, and I like seeing my cousins posts because they live in another state and I don\'92t get to see them often. My grandma is on Facebook and comments on everything like \'93Love this!!!!\'94 It\'92s super embarrassing but also kinda sweet because she is paying attention. When my friend moved away last year, we used social media to keep in touch. We sent videos to each other and talked about random things like annoying teachers and new songs. Social media bridges the gaps in distance.\
\
I try not to think about the other side of the argument, but it bothers me. When I go to TikTok, I say to myself I\'92ll just watch one video. I then spend a lot of the time mindlessly participating in the same behavior until the time passes and brainlessly scrolling. I tell myself the next video might be good, but I end up wasting a lot of time on nothing. I spend a lot of time on TikTok and sometimes I feel a weird and restless like a I just consumed a lot of sugar, I feel bad after I use my phone. I try to do homework, and it gets really hard to concentrate, I check my phone and that really distracts me. Watching a movie, it is supposed to be fun, and I think about my phone and what I\'92m missing, when I normally would say it isn\'92t important.\
\
It's uncomfortable to say I feel jealousy. I get that people post what they want, and what they want is often happy and/pretty things. They aren't posting about crying or failing. I see what you mean and I get it. It's rational and makes sense. It shouldn't be a big deal. I get that you're on a great trip. Your group looks awesome. I get it. I get that we're all rational people, but it still hurts. It hurts to watch a trip I'd want to go on and it makes me feel like I'm so much worse than everyone else. I know everyone is fake having a great time but it sucks because I can't help but imagine everyone is having a wonderful time together. (Which is not a rational thought, I know...). I feel jealousy and discomfort around so many different things. It hurts to see people not hang out with you. It hurts to see something awesome happen to another person. I know I deserve to be with the group that is being together. The attention is supposed to be on me. I feel bad that I'm not part of it.\
\
Lately. I have been feeling calm while taking work breaks due to social media disconnect. I have set boundaries recently and it feels good to not constantly check social media. I have been leaving my phone in another room while I work and have turned off some app notifications. I feel better when I set some boundaries. I disconnect from social media more and I have been feeling more aligned with myself.\
\
I wish social media had little to no negatives. I claim that social media has no positives either. No alternatives exist to social media. Social media allows the closest people to stay connected. However, it draws attention, causing you to compare yours standstill moments to others' highlight moments. I am still trying to figure out how to not become social media. I am learning how to use social media and not lose myself in the process\
\
}