{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Jalal al-Din Rumi is frequently introduced as a so-called 'love poet'. However, such a label falls short of capturing who Rumi truly was and the importance of his writings. Rumi was a Sufi mystic, part of the Islamic tradition, who sought to experience God directly through love, self-discipline, and spiritual practice. Rumi's poems and his lengthy work, the Masnavi, are more than just beautiful lines about romance. Rather, Rumi is attempting to guide people toward a more profound and richer inner life. This inner life is part of the Islamic mystical tradition, the Sufi idea of the trained heart that recognizes God.\
\
It is often said that Sufism is the one of the most spiritually inner forms of Islam. Such a position does not negate the importance of the Qur'an or the other forms of worship; rather, it emphasizes the significance of each and every one of the practices, and invites the believers to understand and appreciate the broader spiritual realities reflected within these practices. Rumi is also a very good example of using Islamic concepts and ideas. He takes concepts like repentance, prayer, humility, and trust in God and tells beautiful stories that bring these spiritual quests to life, and make the struggles very real. In the *Masnavi*, he employs pedagogical anecdotes, parables, and even theatrical performances to represent the various forms of people\'92s spiritual, egotistical, or prideful stagnation. He almost always focuses on the importance of spiritual metamorphosis.\
\
The yearning that is a part of Rumi\'92s mystique is an important part of his mystique. Rumi is a Sufi and Sufi literature depicts longing not merely as absence and sadness but the ache of the soul that originally came from God and wants to go home. Rumi is a master of this motif. The reed that is often referred to in the opening lines of many discussions of the Masnavi is a symbol of longing and separation. The reed is a musical instrument but is not simply a thing. The reed is a symbol of the soul. The longing is an indication that the soul is tired of the mundaneness of this world and that God is the home and that this world is a temporary place in the context of the Islamic Sufi mystical tradition.\
\
In the *Masnavi*, Rumi illustrates Sufi concepts teaching through paradox and metaphor. For Rumi, losing yourself to find yourself or becoming \'91nothing\'92 to be close to God is an illustration of *Fana* and *Baqa*, the Sufi concepts of losing the ego and living in God. He will not use those terms but the direction of the message is clear. The self-centered \'91I\'92 has to shrink for the soul to open. Many stories have wise appearing characters but in reality, they are imprisoned in their own ego and pride. It is not simply ethical teaching, it is spiritually diagnostic.\
\
In a personal, emotionally intense, and non-academic manner, Rumi refers to the Koran, the prophets, and the lessons of the Islamic tradition. He knows, and it is not an easy task, to bring spirituality to the reader. He does not write a law book, a textbook of theology, or an academic publication. He must awaken the readers emotionally and intellectually. The *Masnavi* is a Sufi spiritual and ethical guide of heart, like many Sufi masters, and adds that Rumi does it in a unique way. Rumi has the exceptional gift of converting spiritual concepts into powerful and dynamic stories.\
\
Because of his role as a Sufi mystic, Rumi's work should be understood through that lens. The *Masnavi* is not just a text to be read, but a text to be followed in the pursuit of the divine through love, separation, and integration. As a reflection of the inner, Islamic, Sufi, and mystic traditions, the poems focus on inner transformation, devotion, and the deeper reality that exists behind the day-to-day and calls the soul to return home.\
\
}