{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 My chin was a little scrunched. I could picture the little sign on the lunch box. My lunch box was a box, yes, but it was an indication. I was half Chinese, half German American, but the part that stood out at school was my Mom. My Mom is a Malaysian immigrant. An accent that in my head I could describe as musical, and a cook that was still in the humid, busy streets of Kuala Lumpur, even if she was in a boring suburban area where pepper was the spiciest thing to find. \
\
Reporting to school in elementary wearing the same flash of colours on my shirts was a little unfair. I had the peace of mind that I had my mom's cooking packed in my lunch. But what I had more than a peace of mind is was that school was a war zone of judging eyes. Elementary kids had an underestimate and nothing more. My mom cooked, and she made crafts as if she was still in the busy, sweaty streets of Kuala Lumpur. My lunch more than had a presence to it: that was an impeachment of smells. That was the fried rice with little pieces of eggs, and the rice didn't just carry curry, it absorbed it overnight and at the same time it accompanied it, and the little container had a little stalk of sambal, the bright plastic, and for the uneducated, plastic could burn, and I would open the lunch and my stomach would fall.\
\
I began requesting "normal" lunches from my mom, saying it like it was a minor change, like asking someone to swap a shirt for a different color. ``Can you just make a sandwich? Like, a turkey one?'' She would pause, and I could sense that she was trying to understand. She bought deli meat and sliced bread and packed it with chips like some of the other moms. I pretended to be grateful, but the sandwich was pretty tasteless. I felt weird again, like I had swapped something for a new sandwich that looked real.\
\
I did eat my parents\'92 food. I would go to the kitchen while my mom cooked so that I could watch her hand movements. I would see her pour things in without measuring. She cooked like she knew what she was doing. She would talk to my and stir the food, and she would switch to Mandarin without noticing. My dad, who's German and American, likes things plain. He still went back for seconds. I was confused, Why was I embarrassed instead of him? \
\
There was no single moment that I could point to that changed everything. I could point to lots of things, and when I added them up I could see the difference. I started going to friends\'92 houses in middle school. I noticed their dinners. They were a little boring. No hate, but the food was plain. It wasn\'92t food that was trying to annoy people. It was nearly the same thing every night. I remember my mom describing her childhood. It was her memories. She was describing what she had to do to survive when she moved to another continent to start a new life. It was her food, and her life. It was how she survived. It was her memory. It was how she cooked.\
\
In one of my high school, we had something called a \'93heritage potluck.\'94 I was going to skip out on it, but my mom made me bring something, which ended up being nasi lemak. I remember getting to school and thinking, \'93This is going to be so embarrassing\'94 as I set it on the table. When I set it down, I saw a line forming, and heard a girl who I had never spoken to before who said, \'93This is amazing, what is it?\'94 I remember feeling pride for the first time when I answered her and said, \'93It\'92s called Nasi Lemak. My mom made it.\'94\
\
It would be a lie if I said I\'92m never embarrassed of my mom when I see her haggle with the bakers, or cringe a little when she sends my brother with a lunch that is \'93too smelly.\'94 I catch myself getting defensive of it. I crave it. I remember once mom\'92s soup was exactly what I needed. I wanted to disappear as I was wanting to be a part of everyone\'92s idea of \'93\
\
}