{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 When I first heard the words \'93prep school entrance interview,\'94 I imagined myself walking into a fancy office and impressing everyone with my handshake. I thought I would say something intelligent about leadership and community service. In my head, I was a movie scholarship kid. In reality, I was a sweaty 14-year-old, wearing a blazer and sitting in the car, trying to figure out how long I was supposed to hold eye contact with someone. I was about to make my first interview with a prep school.\
\
When I first walked onto the campus, I noticed how quiet it was, a silence only rich schools have to offer. It was as if the trees were polite, too. I noticed my mom adjusting my collar from the drivers seat, as if I was a 5-year-old. I walked in and the receptionist asked me to take a seat. It smelled like lemon and old books. I tried to sit in a confident way and the chair I pulled out made a huge squeaking noise and for some reason, it made me feel like I already failed.\
\
Just then, the admissions guy came out, and he called my name. I stood up way too quickly, and my folder came out of my hands. My papers flew out and rained all over the floor. Instead of just laughing, being a good sport, and picking them up, I sort of froze, and I said, \'93This is not how I usually am.\'94 Which is, terrible, and an outright lie because I often act like this. \
\
He helped me pick everything up, and he directed me to his office. The walls had some nice framed pictures, and there was a bowl of candy on his desk. He asked me some very basic stuff like why I wanted to go there, what I like doing, and what classes I like, and stuff like that. Obviously, perfectly normal stuff. However, my mind just blanked on me. I answered one question and said, \'93I enjoy...reading and also...teamwork.\'94 Like that was a list of two hobbies one would do over the weekends.\
\
One day, he asked me what I was reading, and I tried to sound cool, but I blanked. The only book I could think of was *Diary of a Wimpy Kid* because my brother left it on the couch, so I said that. I tried to sound a little better where I said, \'93But like, in an ironic way.\'94 That really didn't help. He raised his eyebrow and I felt my cheeks burn. I knocked over the water bottle they gave me and it spilled on the floor. I started to say sorry a hundred times. He handed me paper towels like it was a normal thing, which made it even worse.\
\
As soon as I left the interview, I felt like I was watching myself in a movie, and I was doing everything wrong. I told my mom in the car, \'93I ruined it.\'94 I replayed it over and over in my head, and I thought the guy doing the interview was jotting down notes saying, \'93clumsy,\'94 \'93awkward,\'94 and \'93wolf child.\'94 \
\
When I got home, I wanted to lay in my bed and do nothing, but I realized the interview was the first time I couldn\'92t be overshowed in hiding being \'93the smart kid\'94 or \'93the responsible one.\'94 I was just a mess. Honestly, it was real. I was honest in a thank you email that I was nervous and I thanked him for being nice. I didn\'92t apologize for being nervous. I just admitted it.\
\
Regardless of the outcome of the interview, I learned being impressive is not the same as being real. I learned I can fail publicly in a big way and nothing will happen. I learned I can be embarrassed and endure it. If a school values students who are flawless, it probably isn't the school for me. However, if the school values students who can learn from their mistakes and not take themselves too seriously, then that interview is something I guess the school appreciated.\
\
}