{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Machiavelli's *The Prince* poses a challenge. Formally, it presents as a guide for all types of political rulers, including the oppressive and authoritarian. However, as you read, it seems that Machiavelli may be exposing a critique of the morally repugnant evil power that a ruler may possess when they focus only on maintaining their control. For me, *The Prince* is best understood as a cynical guide to power, that also serves as a critique, due to its unapologetic, stark boldness regarding the costs of that power.\
\
To begin with, there's plenty of proof that Machiavelli is trying to teach rulers how to hold onto power. He isn\'92t reluctant to give counsel that seems unrestrained. A prince is better off being feared than loved, if he can\'92t be both is one of the most well known statements. That\'92s not written as a joke; he explains why fear is more dependable than love, because love is dependent on the people\'92s loyalty and when the going gets tough, loyalty can change. He also is speaking about using cruelty \'93well\'94, meaning that he can be cruel and all at once, like, so he can stabilize the state and then do no more cruelty. That kind of description seems to be a strategic plan, not just clowning on a tyrant.\
\
Machiavelli also devotes a great deal of attention to understanding \'93appearances.\'94 He thinks a prince doesn\'92t have to be virtuous, but he must seem to be virtuous. Morality, in this case, appears to be a kind of masquerade. The fox and the lion\'94, prince must also be a lion and a fox, lion to be strong but fox to be crafty. These sections feel very practical and almost manual-like for surviving the more violent ends of the political spectrum. If Machiavelli\'92s intent was to dissuade people from tyranny, why offer such practical guidance?\
\
On the other hand, one could also read the book as a critique given the straightforwardness and extremity of the counsel. Machiavelli doesn\'92t sugar coat anything. When he makes the assertion that a prince must \'93learn how not to be good\'94, he seems to be deliberately removing the feel good narratives surrounding leadership, the ones that describe it as a divine or noble cause. His blunt style makes tyranny seem worse, ironically. If one was to follow Machiavelli\'92s reasoning to the end, leadership would be nothing but a cycle that constantly revolves around manipulation, coercion and the control of public perception.\
\
While Machiavelli might feel he is assisting the prince, he is also telling other readers what is occurring behind the scenes.\
\
The context is important as he is connected with the Florentine republic and got pushed out when the Medici returned. He dedicates *The Prince* to a Medici, which could be seen as trying to obtain a position and show he is of value. However, it also presents a possibility of writing something that at surface value is seemingly loyal, but is actually undermining the strategy of dictatorial power. Also, in contrast to most of Machiavelli\'92s other writings (such as *Discourses on Livy*, which he appears to be more supportive of the republic), it\'92s tough to assert that there is not more to it than offer simple praise for authoritarianism.\
\
The question then is, is it a legitimate and sincere handbook or is it a voice of dissent presented in a satirical manner? To me, it is both. It is a handbook in the sense that it is straightforward on the various means available to a ruler. However, it is also a voice of dissent in that the \'93instructions\'94\
\
}