{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I start my day slow, waking up organically rather than to an intrusive alarm. I enjoy taking my time to make my tea, and I take it step by step. I don't force myself to make it in an overly productive way. I appreciate watching the tea bag absorb the water, and it allows me to enjoy the moment instead of running around. I really enjoy this small moment of my day.\
\
Then I would pick a book and read for a little while. It\'92s a little hard for me to read when I\'92m busy with school because I\'92m always thinking about what I\'92m stressed over. Once I get into a book it\'92s a different story though. I enjoy it when I can listen to the pages turn and when the house is quiet. I enjoy reading a book over a day instead of checking my phone every couple of minutes. I enjoy taking a break from reality by immersing myself into the story. I'm not trying to rush through a book like some people do and I'm not trying to speed read it.\
\
Around the late morning and early afternoon, I would meet with some friends for lunch. It\'92s always nothing too fancy, just some place to sit and talk and not feel rushed. I look forward to it a lot because It\'92s like comfort but for socializing. We would talk about random videos, games we're playing, and things from class. It\'92s nice to be a little loud in public and we. to enjoy laughing and not care about what people thinking.\
\
I\'92m really looking forward to playing video games after lunch. I like co-op games best. I enjoy being on the same team as everyone instead of competing against each other. I think it\'92s really fun to work together. I like it when the game gets chaotic, like when someone accidentally presses the wrong button and everything goes wrong. Instead of getting mad, we laugh. I enjoy hanging out while playing video games because we get to spend time together, but I don\'92t have to have a super deep conversation. \
\
Watching TV with my cat is the best part of the night. He always acts like he is too good to be around people, but when I sit down he needs to be right next to me. He lays down right next to me like he owns the couch while I put on a show I\'92ve seen before. I like being able to decompress and relax when I don\'92t have to do anything. \
\
Drinking tea, hanging out with my friends, playing games, and snuggling a cat-shaped blanket is my perfect day, so it doesn\'92t have to be anything dramatic. It\'92s perfect just the way it is.\
\
}