{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 There are a large number of theories about geoengineering. Many are concerned with the use of mirrors in space, or with the manipulation of the atmosphere in order to cool the planet. Other theories use more direct approaches to altering specific components of the hydrological cycle, including evaporation, condensation, precipitation, runoff, and storage. Most of these theories aim to lessen the severity of droughts, replenish necessary water supplies, or protect specific regions from extreme weather. The potential positive effects that these theories seem to offer are countered by the negative effects that water cycle manipulation could cause.\
\
Cloud seeding is one of the most recognized techniques. Aircraft or ground-based generators sprinkle clouds with chemicals (like silver iodide or salt) that encourage the precipitation of water droplets. The practice has been deployed to promote snowfall in the mountains or to elicit rain in drought situations. It has also been used to promote base snowfall in winter resorts. The practice, however, is controversial, especially in winter resorts, because its effectiveness is cloud and weather dependent. Furthermore, people in the vicinity of a cloud-seeding target area often express concern that they now miss the rain that would have fallen in their area and that the cloud-seeding target area is taking their rain. This also creates a political or social dilemma among neighboring places. Finally, to many the chemicals introduced to the environment (although thought to be in small amounts) elicit research interest because of the possible long-term effects that can be caused by the engineering of our atmosphere. Current studies state that the possible long-term impacts to our environment that the chemicals used, are small.\
\
An additional option is altering land cover, such as planting (or in some cases, restoring) forests or wetlands. Trees pull water from the ground and release it into the atmosphere, and they can also impact the local humidity and precipitation. Wetlands also lower water's speed in the cycle, storing it, preventing floods, and maintaining river flow during dry periods. The biggest drawback is the decades long time they can take to realize significant changes. In addition, if done improperly, it can backfire. For instance, planting a single species of fast-growing trees in a dry location can overdraw groundwater and exacerbate water scarcity. Also, land that is converted to forests can compete with land that is necessary for food production.  \
\
Certain geoengineering concepts are intended to \'91engineer\'92 water availability, as opposed to precipitation. For instance, with **desalination**, we can convert ocean water to fresh water, which changes the way land water storage and the water cycle is managed by humans. In addition to assisting coastal cities during drought cycles, desalination is also expensive from an energy standpoint, and if the energy source is fossil fuel, it increases the volume of GHG emitted. Finally, treating ocean water generates a brine and in the absence of responsible engineering and ocean management, it can produce disastrous impacts on marine ecosystems.\
\
Some other major constructions include **dams, canals, and reservoirs**. These structures can store water, regulate flooding, and transport water from areas with surplus water to areas with water scarcity. However, building a dam breaks up river systems, obstructs fish migration, and traps sediment which can be damaging to deltas and beaches, and can even lead to the displacement of people. Large water transfers can also cause the spread of invasive species and/or pollution between watersheds. \
\
Some of the climate and geoengineering techniques, such as **solar radiation management**, which aim to reduce temperatures may also affect the water cycle indirectly. Cooling the planet may also lead to a reduction in evaporation as well as alter the monsoon patterns, which could cause reduced rainfall in certain areas and that is a significant concern because billions of people depend on consistent and seasonal rainfall.\
\
In summary, geoengineering the water cycle may assist with emergencies. However, it brings a great amount of risk and uneven results. Water is interlinked to the weather, ecosystems, and the lives of the people. Even \'93successful\'94 projects may potentially cause problems in other areas.\
\
}