{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 When conversing about dystopias, Orwell and Huxley\\'s works are often name dropped first. These two authors outline attempts to depict worlds in which human freedoms are systematically stripped away. Huxley utilizes a world governed by hedonistic apathy, where social conditioning and entertainment over-stimulation leaves the populace with an endless desire to be \\"happy\\". Orwell employs the opposite world to depict dystopia; a world governed by totalitarianism, where fear, oppression, and unrelenting surveillance determine the structure of existence. Huxley\\'s vision of the future is arguably more realistic, given that contemporary social structures are rooted in distracted over-consumption, leading to the voluntary relinquishment of privacy and autonomy.\
\
The government in 1984 has to work really hard to keep control. The Party watches people through telescreens and rewrites history. They also punish people really deeply. It is control through pain. The people do not even trust each other; not even families. Winston is shaped by nothing but fear. Fear of saying the wrong thing, fear of being caught thinking the wrong thing, and fear of being erased. This dystopia depends on a government that uses violence openly and constantly. Some countries have high levels of surveillance and censorship, but everything in 1984 seems hard and difficult to keep under control. When people are pushed too hard there is a lot of resistance, and fear-based systems create a lot of tension.\
\
Brave New World feels realistic because it doesn\'92t take as much blatant force. Huxley describes a world where pleasure is the means of control. People take a drug called soma to avoid sadness; they are endlessly entertained, and they are conditioned to love their social role. The World State is most clever in that they don\'92t just stop rebellion, but make rebellion seem pointless. With a society that is so comfortable, numbed, and distracted, it becomes unthinkable to fight for freedom. This description of society really hit home because, while the world of Huxley is fictional, there are many real versions of \'93soma\'94 (endless scrolling, streaming, online shopping, and an array of other dopamine hits) that are already integrated into our daily lives. We do not need a dictator to check our phones 100 times a day. We already do.\
\
Brave New World touches on the many growing aspects of technology and consumerism. Companies and apps strive for our attention, and many seem OK with sacrificing their privacy for convenience. Although this is not the same as Orwell\'92s government spying, the outcome is similar. Someone will always be watching and shaping your world. The world that Huxley described included genetic engineering and \'93crafted\'94 people. This no longer sounds like science fiction with the existing technologies like genetic editing, in vitro fertilization, and predictive behavior. The idea of systems from the very beginning of someone\'92s life shaping and sorting them is not too far-fetched in a world that might never seem to fully develop caste-based human systems.\
\
\
But I do think both scenarios play a part in the world today. The world has parts of Orwell\'92s 1984, with the existing propaganda, the inversion of truth, and the rewriting of history, but in the long term, there are more Huxley elements. A world in which people are entertained and comfortable is more conducive for control than a world of fear.\
\
If I had to pick one book and based solely on the title, I would say *Brave New World* is the most likely candidate, as it is the most likely dystopia to be embraced by the public. It provides the warning that the loss of freedom is not always a result of someone taking it by force; it can also result from apathy.\
\
}