{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 In my parents divorce, things began to feel fragile, \'93like thin glass.\'94 Although nothing was literally broken, nothing worked with my friends, and nothing was broken at school, I felt as if my life was something that could shatter at any second. I could feel the heaviness in the air. Normal activities like cooking and doing laundry were heavy, sad, with one big, weird sadness. I was angry and confused, so I acted like nothing was wrong. I did my best in school, so that when people asked how I was, I would respond with \'93I\'92m good.\'94 Then I would scroll my phone at night until I was so tired I could no longer think.\
\
When my mom asked me if I wanted to go to Bali with her, I honestly wasn\'92t excited. I thought it would be nice to go to a pretty place, but that felt wrong. Just like my mom, I needed to take a breather, so I needed this vacation almost as much as she did. I thought we were taking a vacation to Bali to take a vacation, but we just needed the vacation in Bali.\
\
Upon arriving in Bali, I noticed how different, but loud everything was. I could hear the ocean, the birds, and the buzzing of the scooters. No one in my family was arguing and the world was still loud. Back home, I felt like I was always waiting for my parents to start arguing again. In Bali, I listened to everything except my parents. I felt relaxed.\
\
One morning we walked through some of the rice terraces. The sun was shining and made everything look like a different world. I felt amazed and thought to myself, "The world is still here". When I thought of the world after my parents divorce it felt to me like the world had came to an end. Seeing people in Bali go about their lives; the farmers, the children, the other tourists; was a reminder that the world is still there. I needed that reminder.\
\
I also did something unexpected: I cried while being in public. This happened at a temple. There were offerings of small baskets with flowers and incense. The temple was quiet and the air was a bit sweet and smoky. I don\'92t know why, but I suddenly felt all the feelings I had been keeping in. Not just sadness, but also embarrassment and disappointment. I felt a deep tiredness from pretending. I cried and did not try to hide it, and no one acted like it was a big deal. My mom did not tell me to stop. She just stood by me. That moment did not take away the trauma, but it was an uplifting moment, keeping it no longer as a hidden secret shame, but allowing me to feel that it was something I would, in fact, survive. \
\
During the week, I felt parts of me coming back to life. I was more cheerful and I took photos for my own remembrance and not for social media. I put on a swimsuit and did not obsess over my appearance. I was no longer anxious about being \'93weird\'94 or doing something wrong, so I tried new foods. It was like I remembered and cherished my personality outside of being a kid, even if it was temporarily in the middle of a messy breakup.\
\
Bali helped me realize that healing isn\'92t about one moment where everything is okay, it\'92s about consistently waking up and choosing to live as yourself again. Diving into my problems and drowning was not an option. I was able to overcome my emotional distress and bring closure to my predicament. My problems clearly haven\'92t disappeared, as the divorce is still real, and the hurt still remains, but when I flew home, my problems didn\'92t resolve themselves.\
\
}