{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 For a long time, people believed that the continents were fixed in the positions we see today. However, evidence suggests that the continents were all once joined together in a single landmass, usually referred to as Pangaea, which then slowly split apart. It may seem unbelievable at first, but clues from rocks, fossils, and the ocean floor can lead to a valid explanation.\
\
The most popular evidence is the way the continents seem to fit together. When you look at a world map, the western side of Africa and the eastern side of South America appear to fit together like puzzle pieces. The fit is perfect, but coast lines change when erosion, sediment build up, and water levels change and when you look at the underwater edges, the fit is significantly better. This is one of the reasons why Alfred Wegener proposed the theory of continental drift in the early 1900s.Fossils help scientists piece together the story of Pangaea. Fossils from the same organisms have been discovered on currently separated continents. Mesosaurus, a small freshwater reptile, lived in the freshwater of South America and Africa. He could not have crossed the Atlantic, so fossil evidence supports the continents were once joined. Glossopteris, a fossilized plant, was found in Australia, South America, Africa, Antarctica, and even India! Fossils of the same species found on separate continents show that the continents were once together.\
\
The same idea supports why scientists match rocks and mountain ranges. If two rivers on different continents have the same rocks and types of rocks of the same age, they could have once been together. It is more scientifically plausible than two different rivers having the same rocks. The Appalachian Mountains in the eastern part of North America are the same age and same structure as the Caledonian Mountains in Scotland and Scandinavia (connected to the Caledonian Mountains). It is like a jigsaw puzzle, together the patterns make more sense.\
\
Evidence linked to climate is equally as compelling. Glacial scratches and deposits (till) can be found in locations that are warm today such as South America, Africa, India, and Australia. These show that glaciers moved through those locations. If all those continents were scattered to where they are today, and had that same ice age evidence, it would be strange. But if they were clustered together, it would make sense that they were once near the South Pole. Additionally, coal beds (which form from lots of plant material in warm, wet environments), which are found in Antarctica, suggest it was once in a much different climate zone.\
\
Lastly, the strongest evidence from modern science is taking is seafloor spreading and plate tectonics. During the mid-1900s, scientists created a map of the ocean floor and discovered new underwater mountain ranges (mid-ocean ridges). They also discovered rock in the ocean that had a pattern of magnetism (magnetic stripes) that were created when the ocean floor was formed. These stripes were identical on either side of the ridges, suggesting new oceanic crust is continuously created and pushed outward. GPS systems can be used to actually track the movement of the tectonic plates as they inch towards one another a few centimeters a year.\
\
All of the data collected on the shapes of the continents, the matching fossil records, the aligned geological features, the climatic similarities, and ocean floor characteristics all support the idea that Earth's continents were once connected and have moved apart over time.\
\
}