{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I feel like everyone is always in a huge rush. My friends are always stressed about their SAT scores or trying to build some crazy resume for college, but honestly, I\'92m just not built like that. People call me "chill," which I guess is just a nice way of saying I don't really have a sense of urgency. But if I\'92m being real, my version of a perfect day isn't about doing something big or productive. It\'92s about the small stuff that actually makes life feel good.\
\
My perfect day would start pretty late. I\'92m definitely not an early bird. I\'92d wake up when the sun is actually up and go straight to the kitchen to make a cup of tea. I\'92m not a coffee guy\'97it makes me too jittery, and I like staying at a level five out of ten energy-wise. I\'92d probably go with Earl Grey or maybe something herbal if I\'92m feeling extra relaxed. Then, I\'92d just sit on the couch with a book for a solid two hours. I\'92m currently into sci-fi, and there\'92s something so nice about being completely sucked into another world while the house is still quiet.\
\
Eventually, I\'92d have to leave the house, but only for something fun. I\'92d meet up with my friends for lunch at this taco place near my neighborhood. We aren't the type of group that needs to go on some big adventure; we\'92re perfectly happy just sitting in a booth for way too long, eating chips and salsa and talking about nothing. That\'92s the best part about being chill\'97you don\'92t need a plan. You just hang out and see where the conversation goes.\
\
After lunch, we\'92d probably head back to someone\'92s house to play video games. I\'92m not really into those super competitive shooters where everyone is screaming into their headsets. I much prefer co-op games like *Stardew Valley* or *Overcooked*. There\'92s something hilarious about failing a level together and just laughing it off instead of getting mad. It\'92s just about the vibes, not the high score.\
\
By the time the sun starts going down, I\'92d be back home. The finale of my perfect day is definitely the "rot on the couch" phase. I\'92d turn on a show I\'92ve probably already seen three times\'97like *The Office* or some random documentary\'97and my cat, Mochi, would immediately come over. He\'92s basically the animal version of me. He just wants to sit there, be warm, and not be bothered. Having him purring next to me while I\'92m wrapped in a blanket is basically peak existence.\
\
I know some people might think this sounds boring, but to me, it\'92s everything. Life is already loud and stressful enough at school. If I can spend twenty-four hours just being quiet, hanging with my favorite people, and petting my cat, I\'92d say that\'92s a pretty successful day. I don\'92t need to climb a mountain to feel like I did something important. Sometimes, just being relaxed is enough.}