{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 When most people think about Rosa Parks, they usually only think about that one day in 1955 when she refused to give up her seat on a bus in Montgomery. We learn about it every year in history class, but it kind of feels like her story just stops after the boycott ended. The truth is, Rosa Parks did a lot more for the Civil Rights Movement even after she left Alabama, and her life was actually pretty tough because of what she did.\
\
After the boycott was over, Rosa Parks and her family actually had a really hard time. Even though they won the court case, things didn't just become perfect. She lost her job at the department store, and her husband Raymond lost his job too because people were angry about their activism. They were getting death threats all the time. It got so bad that they eventually had to move to Detroit in 1957. A lot of people don\'92t realize that she was basically forced out of her home because of the backlash.\
\
Once she got to Detroit, she didn\'92t just retire or try to live a quiet life. She stayed really active in politics. In the 1960s, she started working for John Conyers, who was a black Congressman. She worked in his office for over twenty years. This was a big deal because she wasn't just a symbol anymore; she was actually helping people with things like housing, jobs, and discrimination cases. She was also really involved in the Black Power movement, which some people find surprising because she\'92s always portrayed as this quiet, elderly lady. She actually went to a lot of the same rallies as Malcolm X and Stokely Carmichael.\
\
She also focused a lot on the next generation. In 1987, she started the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self Development. This was a program that took teenagers on bus tours (which is kind of ironic) to learn about the Underground Railroad and the history of the Civil Rights Movement. She wanted to make sure that kids didn't forget what people had fought for. She spent a lot of her older years traveling and speaking at schools and events to keep the momentum going.\
\
Another thing people forget is that she didn't just care about bus seats. She spoke out against apartheid in South Africa and was always pushing for fair housing laws. She proved that being an activist isn't just about one big moment, but about staying committed for your whole life.\
\
Overall, Rosa Parks\'92 contribution after the boycott shows that she wasn\'92t just a "tired seamstress" who happened to sit down one day. She was a lifelong rebel who kept fighting for justice even when it made her life difficult. Her work in Detroit and her focus on education helped keep the movement alive long after the 1950s were over. She showed that real change takes a lot of work even after the cameras are gone.}