{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Growing up, my kitchen was a battleground of smells. On one side, there was my dad\'92s side of the family\'97the German-American half. That meant mashed potatoes, pot roast, and maybe some sauerkraut if we were feeling adventurous. It was \'93normal\'94 food. It smelled like butter and salt. Then there was my mom\'92s side. She moved here from Malaysia when she was in her twenties, and her cooking smelled like everything at once: pungent shrimp paste, sharp ginger, and spicy sambal that made me sneeze the second I walked through the door.\
\
To be honest, for a long time, I hated it.\
\
I remember this one time in middle school when my mom packed me laksa in a thermos for lunch. When I opened it in the cafeteria, this thick, coconut-curry scent drifted out. It wasn't bad, but it was *loud*. My friend Tyler made a face and asked, \'93What is that? It smells like old fish.\'94 I felt my face get hot. I shoved the lid back on and told him it was just some weird soup my mom made. I didn't eat the rest of the day.\
\
After that, I started asking for Uncrustables and chips. I wanted to be the kid with the brown paper bag that didn't draw any attention. I started feeling ashamed of how my mom would spend hours pounding spices in a mortar and pestle. I\'92d see her hands stained yellow from turmeric and just think about how much easier it would be if we just had spaghetti like everyone else. I was trying so hard to lean into my "American" side that I was basically pushing my mom\'92s culture out the door.\
\
Everything changed during my sophomore year when my grandma (my Ma Ma) came to visit from Malaysia. She didn't speak much English, but she spoke through food. One afternoon, she decided to teach me how to make Hainanese chicken rice. I tried to make an excuse to go to my room, but she grabbed my wrist and handed me a head of garlic.\
\
As we worked, she showed me how the rice isn't just rice\'97it\'92s toasted in ginger and chicken fat until it glows. She told me stories (with my mom translating) about how this was the ultimate comfort food back home. When we finally sat down to eat, I didn't just taste the salt or the spice. I tasted the effort. I realized that while I was busy being embarrassed, my mom and grandma were literally pouring their history into these bowls.\
\
I started looking at my mom\'92s cooking differently after that. I realized that her "weird" ingredients weren't something to hide; they were her way of staying connected to a home she left thousands of miles away. Now, when I walk into the house and smell that sharp scent of shrimp paste, I don't cringe. I actually get hungry. \
\
I\'92m still half German-American, and I still love a good burger. But I\'92ve stopped trying to be "normal." Now, I\'92m the kid who brings leftovers to school and doesn't care if the cafeteria smells like curry. If someone asks what it is, I don\'92t say "weird soup." I tell them it\'92s my mom\'92s specialty, and honestly, they\'92re missing out.}