{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 When we read *Frankenstein* in English class, it\'92s easy to just think of it as an old horror story about a guy who makes a monster out of body parts. But if you actually look at what Mary Shelley was writing about, it\'92s crazy how much it relates to what\'92s happening right now with Artificial Intelligence. Even though the book was written over 200 years ago, it basically predicts all the stuff we\'92re worried about today regarding ChatGPT, robotics, and the future of technology.\
\
The biggest connection between Victor Frankenstein and modern AI developers is the idea of playing God without thinking about the consequences. Victor is obsessed with his experiment, and he doesn\'92t really stop to think if he *should* create life, he just wants to see if he *can*. You see this same thing in the tech world today. Companies are racing to make the smartest AI possible, but they aren't always thinking about what happens if that AI becomes too powerful or if it starts replacing human jobs and creativity. Victor calls his creation a "catastrophe," which is exactly what some scientists are warning will happen if we don't put limits on AI.\
\
Another big point is the idea of "The Uncanny Valley." In the book, Victor is disgusted by the creature because it looks almost human but not quite. It has yellow skin and "watery eyes," and it creeps him out so much that he runs away. This is exactly what people feel when they see AI-generated videos or robots that look too much like people. It\'92s that weird feeling that something is "fake" even if it\'92s acting real. Shelley shows that when we try to recreate humanity through technology, we often end up making something that feels wrong or scary to us.\
\
The most important part of the book, though, is how Victor treats the creature. He abandons it as soon as it wakes up because he\'92s scared. Because the creature is lonely and rejected, it turns violent. This is a huge debate in AI right now: bias and "alignment." If we feed AI data that is mean or biased, the AI is going to act that way. If we don't "parent" the technology correctly, it could end up harming society. The monster isn't born evil; it becomes a monster because of how its creator treated it. If we create an AI that we can't control or that we treat poorly, we might be responsible for its "monstrous" actions later on.\
\
In conclusion, *Frankenstein* isn't just a story about a zombie. It\'92s a warning. Mary Shelley is telling us that just because we have the power to create something new doesn't mean we\'92re ready for the responsibility that comes with it. Whether it\'92s a creature made of old parts or a computer program made of code, the creator is always responsible for what they bring into the world. If we don't learn from Victor\'92s mistakes, we might end up with our own version of a monster that we can't take back.}