{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 When you look at the news today, everyone loves to bring up George Orwell\'92s *1984*. People talk about "Big Brother" or government surveillance whenever they see a camera on a street corner. But if you actually look at how our society works right now, I think Aldous Huxley\'92s *Brave New World* is way closer to our reality. While Orwell\'92s world is scary because of pain and control, Huxley\'92s world is scary because of pleasure and distractions, which is exactly where we are heading.\
\
In *1984*, the government stays in power through fear. There\'92s the Thought Police, torture in Room 101, and the constant threat of being "vaporized." It\'92s a very top-down, aggressive kind of dictatorship. While there are definitely countries that act like this today, it\'92s not really how most of the modern world functions. Most people wouldn't just sit there and let a giant screen scream at them every morning. We like our freedom too much\'97or at least, the *idea* of it.\
\
That\'92s why *Brave New World* is more realistic. In Huxley\'92s book, the government doesn\'92t have to force people to obey because they\'92ve already convinced everyone to love their "servitude." Instead of banning books like they do in *1984*, the people in *Brave New World* just stop reading because they\'92re too busy with "feelies" (which are basically like 4D movies) and taking "soma," a drug that makes them happy all the time. \
\
This feels so much like our world today with social media and streaming services. We aren't being forced to stay off the streets by police; we\'92re staying inside because we\'92re addicted to TikTok or Netflix. We have an endless supply of entertainment that keeps us from thinking about real problems like climate change or politics. Just like the characters in Huxley's book who are obsessed with consumerism and instant gratification, we are constantly being told that buying things and staying "connected" online will make us happy.\
\
Another big point is how information is handled. In *1984*, the government censors everything and changes history. But in *Brave New World*, there is so much information and "noise" that the truth just gets drowned out. This is exactly what\'92s happening with the internet. We aren't lacking information; we have too much of it, and a lot of it is fake or just meant to distract us. We\'92re losing our ability to focus on what actually matters because we\'92re constantly being hit with notifications.\
\
In conclusion, while *1984* is a great warning about what happens when a government gets too much power, *Brave New World* is a more accurate map of where we are right now. We aren't being oppressed by a dictator who hates us; we\'92re being controlled by a system that knows exactly how to keep us entertained and distracted. We aren't living in a world of pain; we're living in a world of "likes" and distractions, which is a lot harder to fight against.}