{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I feel like I spend half my life looking at a screen, and honestly, it\'92s kind of exhausting. Social media is one of those things where I can\'92t really imagine my life without it, but sometimes I really wish I could. It\'92s like this weird love-hate relationship that everyone my age just accepts as normal.\
\
On one hand, it\'92s how I actually stay in the loop. If I wasn\'92t on Instagram or TikTok, I feel like I\'92d literally be a ghost. It\'92s how my friends and I send each other dumb memes at 11 p.m. to show we\'92re thinking of each other, and it\'92s how I see what my cousins in Florida are doing without having to have an awkward twenty-minute phone call. During the pandemic, it was basically a lifeline. It makes the world feel smaller and more connected, which is supposed to be a good thing.\
\
But then there\'92s the downside, which feels like it\'92s getting worse the older I get. My attention span is basically nonexistent now. I\'92ll sit down to do my history homework, tell myself I\'92m just going to check one notification, and suddenly forty-five minutes have passed. I\'92ve watched thirty videos of people making pasta or organizing their closets, and I haven't even written the first sentence of my essay. It\'92s like my brain is rewired to only focus on things that are fifteen seconds long. I try to read a book for English class and I find myself reaching for my phone every two pages just out of habit. It\'92s actually kind of scary how much control the "scroll" has over me.\
\
The worst part, though, is the "highlight reel" effect. I know, logically, that nobody\'92s life is perfect. I know people use filters and only post when they\'92re at a cool party or on vacation. But when I\'92m sitting in my room in my pajamas feeling bored, and I see someone from school posting these amazing, aesthetic photos at a beach or out with a huge group of friends, I still get that sting of jealousy. It makes me feel like I\'92m failing at being a teenager. You start comparing your "behind the scenes" to everyone else\'92s polished front page. It makes everything feel like a competition that I didn't even sign up for.\
\
I\'92ve tried deleting the apps before, but I usually last about two days. I end up feeling left out of the jokes or I miss a plan someone made in a group chat. It\'92s like you\'92re forced to participate if you want a social life, but the price you pay is your focus and your self-esteem. I guess I\'92m just trying to find a balance, but it\'92s hard when the apps are literally designed to keep you hooked. For now, I\'92m just trying to be more aware of it\'97maybe I\'92ll put my phone in the other room while I finish this essay. Or at least I\'92ll try.}