{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 When most people think of Walt Whitman, they think of *Leaves of Grass* and him shouting his "barbaric yawp" over the roofs of the world. But if you really look at his work, there\'92s a massive shift between his early stuff and what he wrote after 1861. The Civil War didn't just change America; it completely changed how Whitman wrote. Before the war, he was all about the individual and this almost cocky optimism, but after seeing the horrors of the hospitals, his poetry became way more grounded, gritty, and honestly, pretty sad.\
\
Whitman wasn't a soldier, but he was right in the middle of the action as a volunteer nurse in Washington, D.C. He spent years visiting thousands of wounded soldiers, bringing them snacks, writing letters for them, and just sitting with them while they died. This experience shows up most clearly in his collection *Drum-Taps*. In the poem "The Wound-Dresser," he doesn't talk about glory or flags or "winning." Instead, he writes about the "clotted rags" and the "refuse" of the hospital. He describes a soldier with a "crush\'92d head" and another with a "stump of the arm." As a high schooler reading this, it\'92s honestly kind of gross, but that\'92s the point. Whitman wanted people to see that war isn't a parade; it\'92s blood and pain.\
\
Another way the war influenced him was how he viewed democracy. Before the war, democracy was kind of an abstract idea for him\'97it was just about everyone being free and happy. But after seeing men from the North and the South dying in the same hospital wards, he started to see democracy as something that required sacrifice. In "Vigil Strange I Kept on the Field One Night," he writes about a soldier staying with a dead comrade until sunrise. It\'92s a really quiet, intimate poem. It shows that the "union" wasn't just a political thing for Whitman anymore; it was a spiritual connection between people that even death couldn't break.\
\
Then there\'92s his obsession with Abraham Lincoln. Whitman saw Lincoln as the ultimate symbol of the American spirit. When Lincoln was assassinated, Whitman was devastated, and it led to some of his most famous poems, like "O Captain! My Captain!" and "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom\'92d." "O Captain!" is actually weird because it rhymes and has a steady beat, which isn't usually Whitman\'92s style. It shows how the grief of the war made him reach for more traditional forms to express his sadness. \
\
In conclusion, the Civil War took Whitman from being a poet of "self" to being a poet of the nation. He stopped just celebrating himself and started mourning for everyone. His time in the hospitals forced him to look at the dark side of life, and his poetry became much more mature because of it. Without the war, Whitman might have stayed just a guy writing about grass, but the war turned him into the "Good Gray Poet" who captured the soul of a broken country.}