{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 When I was younger, I used to think my lunchbox was like a flashing sign that said, \'93Not from here.\'94 I\'92m half Chinese and half German-American, but the part that felt the loudest at school was my mom being a Malaysian immigrant. She speaks English with this careful, slightly musical accent, and she cooks like she\'92s still living in the humid streets of Kuala Lumpur, even though we\'92re in a bland suburban neighborhood where people think pepper is \'93spicy.\'94\
\
In elementary school, my mom packed me food that actually had a smell. Not just a smell\'97like, a presence. There would be fried rice with bits of egg and green onion, or leftover curry that had soaked into the rice overnight. Sometimes it was sambal on the side, this bright red chili paste that looked like it could melt plastic. I would crack my lunch open and instantly feel my stomach drop. Kids would lean over and say stuff like, \'93What is that?\'94 or \'93Ew, it stinks.\'94 They weren\'92t even always trying to be mean. They just didn\'92t know, and I didn\'92t want to be the person who had to explain.\
\
So I started asking my mom for \'93normal\'94 lunches. I said it like it was a simple request, like asking for a different color shirt. \'93Can you just make me a sandwich? Like turkey?\'94 She would pause for a second, and I could tell she didn\'92t totally get it, but she tried. She bought sliced bread and deli meat, and she packed it with chips like the other moms did. I acted relieved, but honestly it tasted like nothing. The sandwich would be kind of soggy by lunchtime, and I\'92d still feel weird, like I had traded something real for something that only looked right.\
\
At home, though, I still ate my mom\'92s food. I\'92d stand in the kitchen while she cooked, watching her move fast without measuring, like her hands already knew. She would talk to me while stirring a pot, and sometimes she\'92d switch between English and Mandarin without even noticing. My dad\'97who\'92s German-American and likes things \'93simple\'94\'97would still go back for seconds. That always confused me. If he wasn\'92t embarrassed, why was I?\
\
The turning point wasn\'92t one big moment. It was more like a bunch of small ones that added up. In middle school I started going to friends\'92 houses and realizing their dinners were kind of\'85sad. Like plain chicken breast and steamed broccoli every night. No hate, but it felt like food that was trying not to bother anyone. Around the same time, I started paying attention to how my mom lit up when she talked about her childhood. She\'92d describe night markets and hawker stalls and how her mom taught her to make certain dishes. I realized her cooking wasn\'92t just food. It was memory. It was survival. It was how she carried her whole life across an ocean.\
\
One day in high school, we had this \'93heritage potluck\'94 thing. I almost didn\'92t bring anything, but my mom insisted on making nasi lemak. The night before, our kitchen smelled like coconut milk and pandan and toasted peanuts. I remember thinking, This is going to be so embarrassing. But when I put it on the table at school, people actually lined up. A girl in my history class said, \'93Wait, this is amazing\'97what is it?\'94 And for once, I didn\'92t shrink. I told her the name, and I told her my mom made it, and I felt proud saying it.\
\
Now I still cringe sometimes when my mom is loudly bargaining at the Asian grocery store or when she packs my little brother something that smells \'93too strong.\'94 But I catch myself defending it. I even crave it. When I\'92m stressed, the idea of her soup feels like being understood without talking. I think I was ashamed because I wanted to disappear into everyone else\'92s idea of \'93}