{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The story of the Korean \'93comfort women\'94 is one of the most painful parts of modern East Asian history, and it still affects how Japan and South Korea see each other today. \'93Comfort women\'94 is the term used for women and girls, many of them Korean, who were forced or pressured into sexual slavery by the Japanese military during World War II. Even though the war ended in 1945, the trauma did not end there. For decades, many survivors stayed silent because of shame, fear, and social stigma. When their stories finally became public, it changed politics, education, and relationships between the two countries.\
\
During Japan\'92s colonial rule over Korea (1910\'961945), Korea had very little power to protect its people. Historians agree that the Japanese military ran a system of \'93comfort stations\'94 where women were exploited. Some women were kidnapped outright, while others were tricked with promises of jobs or education, or pressured by poverty and the war situation. The exact details can vary depending on the case, but the overall system was organized and brutal. After the war, many survivors returned home with physical and emotional scars, and many felt they could not talk about it. This silence made it easier for the issue to be ignored for a long time.\
\
Things started to change in the early 1990s when survivors began speaking publicly and demanding justice. One of the most famous examples is Kim Hak-sun, who testified in 1991 about what happened to her. This led to lawsuits and more public attention. In South Korea, weekly protests started in front of the Japanese embassy in Seoul, asking for an official apology and legal responsibility. These protests became a symbol of the issue, and they still continue today. Statues and memorials were also built, like the \'93Statue of Peace,\'94 which shows a young girl sitting as a reminder of the victims.\
\
The biggest problem in Japanese-Korean relations is that the issue isn\'92t just about the past; it\'92s about how the past is remembered and admitted. Japan has made some apologies and statements, like the 1993 Kono Statement, which acknowledged military involvement, and later expressions of remorse from leaders. However, many Koreans feel these apologies were not consistent or were later weakened by politicians who denied or downplayed what happened. On the Japanese side, some people argue that past agreements settled the issue, and they feel Korea keeps bringing it up. This back-and-forth makes it hard to build trust.\
\
In 2015, Japan and South Korea announced an agreement that was supposed to resolve the comfort women issue \'93finally and irreversibly,\'94 including money for a fund to support survivors. But many victims and activists criticized it because they felt it was rushed and didn\'92t fully include the survivors\'92 voices. Later, South Korea\'92s government questioned the deal and the fund was effectively shut down. This made Japan feel like Korea was breaking promises, while Korea felt Japan still hadn\'92t taken real responsibility.\
\
Today, the comfort women issue still affects trade, security cooperation, and public opinion. Even when leaders try to work together because of shared concerns like North Korea, the history issue can quickly cause new conflicts. In my opinion, the biggest impact is emotional: it shapes how people in both countries view each other. Moving forward is possible, but it would take honest education, respect for survivors, and long-term efforts to rebuild trust instead of just making short political deals.}