{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 For a long time people assumed Earth\'92s continents had always been where they are now. But a lot of evidence shows they were once connected in one big landmass (usually called Pangaea) and then slowly drifted apart. The idea sounds wild at first, but when you look at the clues from rocks, fossils, and the ocean floor, it actually makes a lot of sense.\
\
One of the most famous pieces of evidence is how the continents \'93fit\'94 together. If you look at a map, the east coast of South America and the west coast of Africa match up kind of like puzzle pieces. It\'92s not a perfect match because coastlines change over time from erosion, rising sea levels, and sediment buildup, but if you use the edges of the continental shelves (the underwater edges), the fit gets even better. This was one of the reasons Alfred Wegener first argued for continental drift in the early 1900s.\
\
Fossils are another big clue. Scientists have found fossils of the same organisms on continents that are now separated by huge oceans. For example, Mesosaurus, a small freshwater reptile, has been found in both South America and southern Africa. Since it lived in freshwater, it probably couldn\'92t have swum across the Atlantic Ocean. Another example is Glossopteris, an ancient plant whose fossils are found in South America, Africa, India, Antarctica, and Australia. It\'92s hard to explain that distribution unless those lands were once connected so the species could spread.\
\
Matching rocks and mountain ranges also support the idea. When geologists compare rock layers in different continents, they sometimes find the same types of rocks of the same age lined up across oceans. One well-known example is the Appalachian Mountains in eastern North America. They line up in age and structure with mountain ranges in Scotland and Scandinavia (often connected to the Caledonian mountains). It\'92s like a torn paper edge: the patterns make more sense if you put the pieces back together.\
\
Climate evidence is also important. There are glacial scratches and deposits (called till) in places that are warm today, like parts of South America, Africa, India, and Australia. These marks show that glaciers once moved across those areas. If those continents were scattered where they are now, it would be strange to have the same ice-age evidence in all those separate locations. But if they were clustered together near the South Pole, it fits. On the flip side, coal beds (which form from lots of plant material in warm, wet environments) are found in places like Antarctica, which suggests it used to be in a much different climate zone.\
\
Finally, the strongest modern evidence comes from seafloor spreading and plate tectonics. In the mid-1900s, scientists mapped the ocean floor and found giant underwater mountain chains called mid-ocean ridges. They also discovered magnetic \'93stripes\'94 in ocean rock that mirror on both sides of the ridges, showing new crust is formed and pushed outward over time. Today, GPS measurements can literally track plates moving a few centimeters per year.\
\
Putting all of this together\'97continent shapes, shared fossils, matching rocks and mountains, climate clues, and ocean-floor data\'97makes a pretty convincing case that Earth\'92s continents were once contiguous and have slowly drifted to where they are now.}