{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The year my parents divorced, everything in my life started to feel like it was made out of thin glass. Nothing was technically \'93broken\'94 at school or with my friends, but I felt like I could shatter at any second. At home, the air felt heavier. Even normal stuff\'97like making dinner or doing laundry\'97had this weird sadness stuck to it. I didn\'92t know what to do with all the anger and confusion, so I did what I\'92m good at: I tried to act fine. I kept my grades up, answered \'93I\'92m good\'94 when people asked, and scrolled on my phone late at night until I couldn\'92t think anymore.\
\
When my mom suggested a trip to Bali that summer, I didn\'92t get it at first. Going somewhere pretty didn\'92t seem like it could fix anything. It almost felt wrong, like we didn\'92t deserve a vacation when our family had just fallen apart. But she said she needed to breathe, and honestly, I did too. So we went.\
\
The first thing I noticed in Bali was how loud the world was in a different way. Not loud like arguing. Loud like scooters buzzing, birds yelling in the morning, and the ocean making this steady sound that didn\'92t change depending on anyone\'92s mood. At home, it always felt like I was listening for the next problem. In Bali, I started listening to things that weren\'92t about my parents at all. That alone felt like a break.\
\
One day we took a walk through rice terraces early in the morning. The sun made everything look unreal, like someone turned the brightness up. I remember thinking, \'93The world is still here.\'94 That sounds obvious, but it wasn\'92t to me. After the divorce, it felt like my world had ended, so seeing people just living\'97farmers working, kids laughing, tourists sweating and complaining\'97was a reminder that life doesn\'92t stop. It keeps moving, even if you don\'92t feel ready.\
\
I also did something I didn\'92t expect: I cried in public. We were at a temple, and there were offerings everywhere, these small baskets with flowers and incense. It was quiet, and the smell was kind of sweet and smoky. I don\'92t know why, but I suddenly felt all the feelings I\'92d been holding in. Not just sadness, but embarrassment, and disappointment, and this deep tiredness from pretending. I cried without trying to hide it, and no one acted like it was a huge deal. My mom didn\'92t tell me to stop. She just stood next to me. That moment didn\'92t erase the trauma, but it made it feel less like a secret shame and more like something I could actually survive.\
\
Over the week, I started noticing small parts of myself coming back. I laughed more. I took photos not to post, but because I genuinely wanted to remember. I wore a swimsuit without obsessing over how I looked. I tried new foods and didn\'92t panic about being \'93weird\'94 or doing it wrong. It was like I remembered I had a personality outside of being someone\'92s kid in the middle of a messy breakup.\
\
When we flew home, our problems weren\'92t magically solved. The divorce was still real, and it still hurt. But Bali gave me space to feel things without drowning in them. It showed me that healing isn\'92t one big moment where everything becomes okay. It\'92s more like waking up and choosing, little by little, to live as yourself again\'97even if your family doesn\'92t look the way you thought it would.}