{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I didn\'92t get social media because I thought it would change my life or anything. At first it was just a way to keep up with people. In middle school especially, it felt like if you weren\'92t on Instagram or Snapchat, you were basically invisible. Everyone would be laughing about something from a story, or planning stuff in a group chat, and if you weren\'92t there you\'92d find out later and feel kind of left out. So I downloaded the apps and told myself it would just be for \'93checking in\'94 with friends.\
\
And honestly, sometimes it really does connect me. I like seeing my cousins\'92 posts because they live in a different state and I don\'92t get to see them much. My grandma has Facebook and she comments on everything like \'93Love this!\'94 with a million exclamation points. It\'92s kind of embarrassing but also sweet, because it means she\'92s paying attention. When one of my friends moved away last year, social media was how we stayed close. We\'92d send videos back and forth and keep each other updated on random stuff like a teacher being annoying or a new song we found. In those moments, social media feels like a bridge. It makes the distance smaller.\
\
But then there\'92s the other side, which I try not to ignore because it\'92s the part that messes with me. I\'92ll open TikTok to watch one video and suddenly forty minutes are gone. It\'92s not even like I\'92m enjoying it the whole time. It\'92s more like my brain goes on autopilot and I\'92m just scrolling because the next thing might be interesting. Sometimes I\'92ll put my phone down and feel sort of gross and restless, like I ate too much candy. I notice my attention span getting worse too. I\'92ll start homework and immediately want to check my phone \'93for a second.\'94 Or I\'92ll try to watch a movie with my family and I can\'92t stop thinking about what I\'92m missing online, which is dumb because it\'92s usually nothing important.\
\
The jealousy part is what I hate admitting. I know people don\'92t post their worst moments. Nobody\'92s posting themselves crying in the bathroom or failing a test. People post the best angle, the best lighting, the highlight reel. I understand that logically. But emotionally, it still gets to me. I\'92ll see someone\'92s perfect vacation photos or a group of friends at a party and I\'92ll suddenly feel like I\'92m doing life wrong. Like everyone else is constantly having fun and looking amazing and I\'92m just\'85not. Even when I know it\'92s curated, it\'92s hard not to compare. Sometimes it\'92s not even about looks. It\'92s about seeing people hang out without you, or watching someone else get attention, and it makes you question your own place in your friend group.\
\
What\'92s complicated is that I don\'92t want to quit completely. When I take breaks, I feel calmer, but I also feel disconnected. It\'92s like social media is both the party and the noise outside the door. Lately I\'92ve been trying to set little boundaries, like leaving my phone in another room while I do homework, or turning off notifications for certain apps. I\'92m not perfect at it, but I\'92m noticing that I feel more like myself when I\'92m not constantly watching everyone else.\
\
I think social media isn\'92t totally good or totally bad, which is annoying because I wish it was simpler. It helps me stay close to people I care about, but it also steals my focus and makes me compare my behind-the-scenes to someone else\'92s best moments. I\'92m still figuring out how to use it without letting it use me.}