{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Mary Shelley\'92s *Frankenstein* still matters a lot in modern debates about artificial intelligence because it\'92s basically a story about what happens when humans create something powerful without thinking through the consequences. Even though Shelley wrote it in the early 1800s, the book feels weirdly current when people argue about AI safety, responsibility, and whether we should build certain technologies just because we can.\
\
One of the biggest connections to AI is Victor Frankenstein\'92s attitude toward creation. Victor is obsessed with the idea of making life, but he treats the act like a personal achievement instead of a moral responsibility. He talks about glory and discovery, and once the Creature is alive, Victor immediately panics and abandons it. That part feels like a warning about how tech companies or researchers sometimes act with AI: they rush to build the \'93next big thing,\'94 but they don\'92t always plan for what happens after it\'92s released into the world. In modern AI debates, people bring up \'93alignment\'94 and \'93safety,\'94 which is basically making sure AI systems do what we want and don\'92t cause harm. Victor\'92s problem is that he never even tries to \'93align\'94 his creation with any kind of care, values, or guidance. He just leaves it alone, and then acts shocked when it goes badly.\
\
The Creature itself is also important to this discussion because Shelley makes it clear that the Creature isn\'92t born evil. It learns by watching humans, reading, and trying to connect. It becomes violent after it\'92s repeatedly rejected and treated like a monster. That\'92s relevant to AI because a lot of AI systems learn from human data, and that data can be biased, cruel, or unfair. In the same way the Creature learns what humanity is like through other people\'92s actions, AI \'93learns\'94 patterns from what we\'92ve put online. If the world it learns from is full of stereotypes, hate, or misinformation, then the AI can reflect that back. Shelley shows that a creator can\'92t just blame the creation and pretend they had nothing to do with the outcome.\
\
Another point is how *Frankenstein* shows the danger of refusing accountability. Victor keeps his experiment secret and isolates himself while making the Creature, which parallels how some AI development happens behind closed doors, controlled by a small group with a lot of power. When things start going wrong, Victor doesn\'92t tell people the truth, even when it could save lives. This connects to current debates about transparency and regulation. If AI tools are going to affect everyone\'97jobs, education, policing, warfare\'97then the \'93Victors\'94 of the world shouldn\'92t get to hide their work and then act helpless when harm happens.\
\
Finally, Shelley uses the framing of multiple narrators (Walton, Victor, and the Creature) to make readers question who gets to tell the story. That matters today because AI isn\'92t just a technical topic; it\'92s also about whose voices matter in decisions. The people most affected by AI systems often aren\'92t the ones building them. *Frankenstein* pushes us to listen to the \'93Creature\'94 side too, meaning the people impacted by technology, not just the inventors celebrating it.\
\
Overall, *Frankenstein* stays relevant because it isn\'92t only about a monster\'97it\'92s about creators, consequences, and the responsibilities that come with making something you can\'92t fully control. That\'92s basically the core of the AI debate right now.}