{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The first time I heard the words \'93prep school entrance interview,\'94 I pictured a calm, impressive version of myself walking into a fancy office, shaking hands like I\'92d been doing it for years, and saying something smart about leadership and community service. In my head, I was basically a scholarship kid in a movie. In real life, I was a sweaty fourteen-year-old wearing a blazer that felt like a costume, sitting in the car outside the school and trying to remember if I was supposed to make eye contact for exactly three seconds or if that was a myth from the internet.\
\
The campus was quiet in that way rich schools are quiet, like even the trees have good manners. My mom fixed my collar in the parking lot like I was five. I walked in and the lady at the front desk smiled and told me to take a seat. Everything smelled like lemon cleaner and old books. I tried to sit in a confident way, but the chair squeaked loudly and somehow it made me feel like I already failed.\
\
Then the admissions guy came out and said my name. I stood up too fast, my folder slid out of my hands, and my papers went everywhere like confetti. Instead of just laughing and picking them up like a normal person, I panicked and blurted, \'93This is not how I usually am.\'94 Which, honestly, was a lie. I\'92m exactly like that sometimes.\
\
He helped me gather everything and led me into his office. There were framed photos on the walls and a little bowl of candy on his desk. He asked me basic questions like why I wanted to go there, what I liked to do, and what my favorite class was. All normal stuff. Except my brain decided to abandon me. I answered one question by saying, \'93I enjoy\'85 reading and also\'85 teamwork.\'94 Like those were two hobbies you do on weekends.\
\
At one point he asked what book I was currently reading, and I tried to sound impressive, but my mind went blank. The only title I could think of was *Diary of a Wimpy Kid* because my little brother had left it on the couch. So I said that. Then, for some reason, I tried to recover by adding, \'93But like, in an ironic way.\'94 That made it worse. He raised his eyebrows a little, and I felt my face get hot. I started talking faster, and I knocked over the water bottle they\'92d given me. It rolled off the desk and water spilled on the carpet. I apologized about fifty times. He handed me paper towels like this happened every day, which somehow made me feel even more embarrassed.\
\
When the interview ended, I walked out feeling like I\'92d just watched myself in third person doing every wrong thing possible. In the car, I told my mom, \'93I ruined it.\'94 I couldn\'92t stop replaying it in my head. I was sure the admissions guy was writing notes like \'93clumsy,\'94 \'93awkward,\'94 and \'93possibly raised by wolves.\'94\
\
But a weird thing happened after I got home. Once I got over wanting to crawl into my bed forever, I realized the interview was the first time I couldn\'92t hide behind being \'93the smart kid\'94 or \'93the responsible one.\'94 I was just me, messy and nervous and trying. And honestly, that\'92s real. I wrote a thank-you email where I admitted I was nervous and thanked him for being kind about it. I didn\'92t make excuses. I just owned it.\
\
Whether I got in or not, that interview taught me something important: being impressive isn\'92t the same as being genuine. I learned that I can mess up in a big, public way and still keep going. I can be embarrassed and survive it. And if a school wants students who are perfect all the time, then maybe it wasn\'92t the right place anyway. But if it wants people who can learn, adjust, and laugh at themselves later, then I guess that interview}