{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Walt Whitman is often remembered as the poet of big, hopeful ideas about America, but his writing changed a lot during and after the Civil War. Before the war, in *Leaves of Grass*, Whitman mostly celebrated everyday people, the body, nature, and democracy in this confident, almost fearless way. Once he experienced the war up close, his poetry became more serious and focused on suffering, death, and the cost of keeping the country together. His time in hospitals and his witness to real violence didn\'92t make him stop believing in America, but it definitely reshaped the tone and the subjects of his poems.\
\
Whitman didn\'92t fight as a soldier, but the war still became personal for him. In 1862 he went to Washington, D.C. after hearing his brother might be wounded. While he was there, he started visiting military hospitals and ended up staying for years, helping injured soldiers by bringing food, writing letters, and just sitting with them. This experience matters because Whitman wasn\'92t writing about the war from far away, like it was just a headline. He was looking directly at \'93ordinary\'94 young men who were missing limbs, dying of infection, or dealing with trauma. That closeness shows up in how detailed and human his war poems feel.\
\
One major way the war influenced his poetry is that he began to focus less on grand speeches and more on individual lives. In poems from *Drum-Taps* (his Civil War collection), Whitman often zooms in on one scene or one person to show the meaning of the war. For example, in \'93The Wound-Dresser,\'94 the speaker describes going from bed to bed caring for soldiers, noticing their wounds and trying to comfort them. The point isn\'92t to glorify battle. Instead, Whitman shows the war as intimate and painful, almost like the whole country is one giant hospital. The repeated attention to bodies\'97bandages, blood, weakness\'97connects to Whitman\'92s earlier fascination with the body, but now it\'92s the body broken by history, not just celebrated.\
\
The war also changed Whitman\'92s tone. Earlier Whitman can sound overly confident, like America is unstoppable. After the war begins, his writing still has hope, but it\'92s mixed with grief. The best example is \'93O Captain! My Captain!,\'94 written after Lincoln\'92s assassination. Unlike Whitman\'92s usual free verse style, this poem is tight, rhythmic, and emotional, almost like a song people could recite at a funeral. The speaker is proud that the \'93ship\'94 (the nation) has made it through the storm, but he can\'92t enjoy the victory because the captain is dead. That combination of triumph and loss captures how the war made national unity feel expensive and fragile.\
\
Finally, Whitman\'92s war experience deepened his ideas about democracy. In the hospitals, he saw soldiers from different states, classes, and backgrounds suffering in the same rooms. That made his belief in \'93the people\'94 more grounded and real. He wasn\'92t just praising Americans in theory; he was caring for them in crisis. His poems start to suggest that democracy isn\'92t only about celebrating freedom, but also about responsibility\'97showing up for others when things fall apart.\
\
Overall, Whitman\'92s Civil War experience influenced his poetry by making it more personal, mournful, and realistic. He still tried to speak for the whole nation, but after the war, he spoke as someone who had held the nation\'92s pain in his hands. The Civil War didn\'92t erase Whitman\'92s hope; it forced him to earn it.}