{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 People call me \'93chill,\'94 and I guess that\'92s true. I\'92m not the type who needs to have every second planned or be doing something \'93productive\'94 all the time. Honestly, my perfect day is kind of simple, but it\'92s the kind of simple that makes me feel like my brain finally unclenches. If I could design a day exactly how I want it, it would start slow and stay cozy all the way through.\
\
I\'92d wake up without an alarm blaring at me like I\'92m in an emergency situation. The first thing I\'92d do is make a cup of tea. Not in a fancy way either, just the normal routine: kettle on, mug out, pick a tea bag based on vibes. There\'92s something calming about the whole process, like it tells my body, \'93You don\'92t have to sprint today.\'94 I like sitting there while it steeps, watching the steam rise, and feeling my hands warm up around the mug. It\'92s such a small thing, but it sets the tone.\
\
Then I\'92d grab a book and read for a while. I\'92m not always good at reading when school is busy, because my mind keeps trying to jump ahead to whatever I\'92m stressed about. But on a perfect day, I can actually sink into the story. I like when the house is quiet and I can hear the pages turning, and I don\'92t have to check my phone every five minutes. I\'92m not trying to speed-run the book, either. I just want to be in it for a bit, like a break from real life.\
\
By late morning or early afternoon, I\'92d meet up with friends for lunch. Nothing too fancy\'97just a place where we can talk and not feel rushed. I love that part of the day because it\'92s like the social version of comfort. We\'92d probably talk about dumb stuff, like a random video we saw, or something that happened in class, or what game we\'92re all stuck on. There\'92s something really nice about laughing in public and not caring if we\'92re a little loud.\
\
After lunch, the ideal plan is co-op video games. I\'92m not super competitive, so co-op is perfect because it feels like you\'92re on the same team instead of trying to destroy each other. I like when we\'92re all working together and it gets chaotic in a funny way. Like someone accidentally presses the wrong button and everything goes wrong, and instead of getting mad we just laugh and try again. It\'92s honestly one of my favorite ways to hang out, because we\'92re doing something together but there\'92s no pressure to be \'93deep\'94 the whole time.\
\
And then the night part of my perfect day is just watching TV next to my cat. My cat always acts like he doesn\'92t care about anyone, but the second I sit down, he suddenly needs to be there. He\'92ll curl up beside me and act like he owns the couch, and I\'92ll put on some comfort show I\'92ve already seen. I like that feeling of winding down when nothing is expected of me anymore.\
\
That\'92s my perfect day: tea, pages, friends, games, and a cat-shaped blanket. It\'92s not dramatic or exciting, but it feels like me. And honestly, that\'92s enough.}